# 2 Samuel 22
## David Sings to the Lord
###### ¶ 1
David sang to the LORD the words of this song when the LORD rescued him from the power of all his enemies, including Saul.
###### 2
He said:
>  “ The LORD is my high ridge, my stronghold, my deliverer.
###### 3
>  “ My God is my rocky summit where I take shelter,
>  “ My shield, the horn that saves me, my stronghold,
>  “ My refuge, my savior. You save me from violence!
###### 4
>  “ I called to the LORD, who is worthy of praise,
>  “ And I was delivered from my enemies.
###### 5
>  “ The waves of death engulfed me;
>  “ The currents of chaos overwhelmed me.
###### 6
>  “ The ropes of Sheol tightened around me;
>  “ The snares of death trapped me.
###### 7
>  “ In my distress I called to the LORD;
>  “ I called to my God.
>  “ From his heavenly temple he heard my voice;
>  “ He listened to my cry for help.
###### 8
>  “ The earth heaved and shook;
>  “ The foundations of the sky trembled.
>  “ They heaved because he was angry.
###### 9
>  “ Smoke ascended from his nose;
>  “ Fire devoured as it came from his mouth;
>  “ He hurled down fiery coals.
###### 10
>  “ He made the sky sink as he descended;
>  “ A thick cloud was under his feet.
###### 11
>  “ He mounted a winged angel and flew;
>  “ He glided on the wings of the wind.
###### 12
>  “ He shrouded himself in darkness,
>  “ In thick rain clouds.
###### 13
>  “ From the brightness in front of him
>  “ Came coals of fire.
###### 14
>  “ The LORD thundered from the sky;
>  “ The Most High shouted loudly.
###### 15
>  “ He shot arrows and scattered them,
>  “ Lightning and routed them.
###### 16
>  “ The depths of the sea were exposed;
>  “ The inner regions of the world were uncovered
>  “ By the LORD’s battle cry,
>  “ By the powerful breath from his nose.
###### 17
>  “ He reached down from above and grabbed me;
>  “ He pulled me from the surging water.
###### 18
>  “ He rescued me from my strong enemy,
>  “ From those who hate me,
>  “ For they were too strong for me.
###### 19
>  “ They confronted me in my day of calamity,
>  “ But the LORD helped me.
###### 20
>  “ He brought me out into a wide open place;
>  “ He delivered me because he was pleased with me.
###### 21
>  “ The LORD repaid me for my godly deeds;
>  “ He rewarded my blameless behavior.
###### 22
>  “ For I have obeyed the LORD’s commands;
>  “ I have not rebelled against my God.
###### 23
>  “ For I am aware of all his regulations,
>  “ And I do not reject his rules.
###### 24
>  “ I was blameless before him;
>  “ I kept myself from sinning.
###### 25
>  “ The LORD rewarded me for my godly deeds;
>  “ He took notice of my blameless behavior.
###### 26
>  “ You prove to be loyal to one who is faithful;
>  “ You prove to be trustworthy to one who is innocent.
###### 27
>  “ You prove to be reliable to one who is blameless,
>  “ But you prove to be deceptive to one who is perverse.
###### 28
>  “ You deliver oppressed people,
>  “ But you watch the proud and bring them down.
###### 29
>  “ Indeed, you are my lamp, LORD.
>  “ The LORD illumines the darkness around me.
###### 30
>  “ Indeed, with your help I can charge against an army;
>  “ By my God’s power I can jump over a wall.
###### 31
>  “ The one true God acts in a faithful manner;
>  “ The LORD’s promise is reliable;
>  “ He is a shield to all who take shelter in him.
###### 32
>  “ Indeed, who is God besides the LORD?
>  “ Who is a protector besides our God?
###### 33
>  “ The one true God is my mighty refuge;
>  “ He removes the obstacles in my way.
###### 34
>  “ He gives me the agility of a deer;
>  “ He enables me to negotiate the rugged terrain.
###### 35
>  “ He trains my hands for battle;
>  “ My arms can bend even the strongest bow.
###### 36
>  “ You give me your protective shield;
>  “ Your willingness to help enables me to prevail.
###### 37
>  “ You widen my path;
>  “ My feet do not slip.
###### 38
>  “ I chase my enemies and destroy them;
>  “ I do not turn back until I wipe them out.
###### 39
>  “ I wipe them out and beat them to death;
>  “ They cannot get up;
>  “ They fall at my feet.
###### 40
>  “ You give me strength for battle;
>  “ You make my foes kneel before me.
###### 41
>  “ You make my enemies retreat;
>  “ I destroy those who hate me.
###### 42
>  “ They cry out, but there is no one to help them;
>  “ They cry out to the LORD, but he does not answer them.
###### 43
>  “ I grind them as fine as the dust of the ground;
>  “ I crush them and stomp them like clay in the streets.
###### 44
>  “ You rescue me from a hostile army;
>  “ You preserve me as a leader of nations;
>  “ People over whom I had no authority are now my subjects.
###### 45
>  “ Foreigners are powerless before me;
>  “ When they hear of my exploits, they submit to me.
###### 46
>  “ Foreigners lose their courage;
>  “ They shake with fear as they leave their strongholds.
###### 47
>  “ The LORD is alive!
>  “ My Protector is praiseworthy!
>  “ The God who delivers me is exalted as king!
###### 48
>  “ The one true God completely vindicates me;
>  “ He makes nations submit to me.
###### 49
>  “ He delivers me from my enemies;
>  “ You snatch me away from those who attack me;
>  “ You rescue me from violent men.
###### 50
>  “ So I will give you thanks, O LORD, before the nations!
>  “ I will sing praises to you.
###### 51
>  “ He gives his king magnificent victories;
>  “ He is faithful to his chosen ruler,
>  “ To David and to his descendants forever!”
