# Psalm 107
## Book 5 (Psalms 107-150)
###### ¶ 1
> Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good,
> And his loyal love endures.
###### 2
> Let those delivered by the LORD speak out,
> Those whom he delivered from the power of the enemy,
###### 3
> And gathered from foreign lands,
> From east and west,
> From north and south.
###### ¶ 4
> They wandered through the wilderness, in a wasteland;
> They found no road to a city in which to live.
###### 5
> They were hungry and thirsty;
> They fainted from exhaustion.
###### 6
> They cried out to the LORD in their distress;
> He delivered them from their troubles.
###### 7
> He led them on a level road,
> That they might find a city in which to live.
###### 8
> Let them give thanks to the LORD for his loyal love,
> And for the amazing things he has done for people.
###### 9
> For he has satisfied those who thirst,
> And those who hunger he has filled with food.
###### ¶ 10
> They sat in utter darkness,
> Bound in painful iron chains,
###### 11
> Because they had rebelled against God’s commands,
> And rejected the instructions of the Most High.
###### 12
> So he used suffering to humble them;
> They stumbled and no one helped them up.
###### 13
> They cried out to the LORD in their distress;
> He delivered them from their troubles.
###### 14
> He brought them out of the utter darkness,
> And tore off their shackles.
###### 15
> Let them give thanks to the LORD for his loyal love,
> And for the amazing things he has done for people.
###### 16
> For he shattered the bronze gates,
> And hacked through the iron bars.
###### ¶ 17
> They acted like fools in their rebellious ways,
> And suffered because of their sins.
###### 18
> They lost their appetite for all food,
> And they drew near the gates of death.
###### 19
> They cried out to the LORD in their distress;
> He delivered them from their troubles.
###### 20
> He sent them an assuring word and healed them;
> He rescued them from the pits where they were trapped.
###### 21
> Let them give thanks to the LORD for his loyal love,
> And for the amazing things he has done for people.
###### 22
> Let them present thank offerings,
> And loudly proclaim what he has done.
###### ¶ 23
> Some traveled on the sea in ships,
> And carried cargo over the vast waters.
###### 24
> They witnessed the acts of the LORD,
> His amazing feats on the deep water.
###### 25
> He gave the order for a windstorm,
> And it stirred up the waves of the sea.
###### 26
> They reached up to the sky,
> Then dropped into the depths.
> The sailors’ strength left them because the danger was so great.
###### 27
> They swayed and staggered like drunks,
> And all their skill proved ineffective.
###### 28
> They cried out to the LORD in their distress;
> He delivered them from their troubles.
###### 29
> He calmed the storm,
> And the waves grew silent.
###### 30
> The sailors rejoiced because the waves grew quiet,
> And he led them to the harbor they desired.
###### 31
> Let them give thanks to the LORD for his loyal love,
> And for the amazing things he has done for people.
###### 32
> Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people.
> Let them praise him in the place where the leaders preside.
###### ¶ 33
> He turned streams into a desert,
> Springs of water into arid land,
###### 34
> And a fruitful land into a barren place,
> Because of the sin of its inhabitants.
###### 35
> As for his people, he turned a desert into a pool of water,
> And a dry land into springs of water.
###### 36
> He allowed the hungry to settle there,
> And they established a city in which to live.
###### 37
> They cultivated fields,
> And planted vineyards,
> Which yielded a harvest of fruit.
###### 38
> He blessed them so that they became very numerous.
> He would not allow their cattle to decrease in number.
###### ¶ 39
> As for their enemies, they decreased in number and were beaten down,
> Because of painful distress and suffering.
###### 40
> He would pour contempt upon princes,
> And he made them wander in a wasteland with no road.
###### 41
> Yet he protected the needy from oppression,
> And cared for his families like a flock of sheep.
###### 42
> When the godly see this, they rejoice,
> And every sinner shuts his mouth.
###### 43
> Whoever is wise, let him take note of these things.
> Let them consider the LORD’s acts of loyal love.
