# Psalm 102
###### ¶ 1
> O LORD, hear my prayer.
> Pay attention to my cry for help.
###### 2
> Do not ignore me in my time of trouble.
> Listen to me.
> When I call out to you, quickly answer me.
###### 3
> For my days go up in smoke,
> And my bones are charred as in a fireplace.
###### 4
> My heart is parched and withered like grass,
> For I am unable to eat food.
###### 5
> Because of the anxiety that makes me groan,
> My bones protrude from my skin.
###### 6
> I am like an owl in the wilderness;
> I am like a screech owl among the ruins.
###### 7
> I stay awake;
> I am like a solitary bird on a roof.
###### ¶ 8
> All day long my enemies taunt me;
> Those who mock me use my name in their curses.
###### 9
> For I eat ashes as if they were bread,
> And mix my drink with my tears,
###### 10
> Because of your anger and raging fury.
> Indeed, you pick me up and throw me away.
###### 11
> My days are coming to an end,
> And I am withered like grass.
###### ¶ 12
> But you, O LORD, rule forever,
> And your reputation endures.
###### 13
> You will rise up and have compassion on Zion.
> For it is time to have mercy on her,
> For the appointed time has come.
###### 14
> Indeed, your servants take delight in her stones,
> And feel compassion for the dust of her ruins.
###### 15
> The nations will respect the reputation of the LORD,
> And all the kings of the earth will respect his splendor,
###### 16
> When the LORD rebuilds Zion,
> And reveals his splendor,
###### 17
> When he responds to the prayer of the destitute,
> And does not reject their request.
###### ¶ 18
> The account of his intervention will be recorded for future generations;
> People yet to be born will praise the LORD.
###### 19
> For he will look down from his sanctuary above;
> From heaven the LORD will look toward earth,
###### 20
> In order to hear the painful cries of the prisoners,
> And to set free those condemned to die,
###### 21
> So they may proclaim the name of the LORD in Zion,
> And praise him in Jerusalem,
###### 22
> When the nations gather together,
> And the kingdoms pay tribute to the LORD.
###### ¶ 23
> He has taken away my strength in the middle of life;
> He has cut short my days.
###### 24
> I say, “O my God, please do not take me away in the middle of my life.
>  “ You endure through all generations.
###### 25
>  “ In earlier times you established the earth;
>  “ The skies are your handiwork.
###### 26
>  “ They will perish,
>  “ But you will endure.
>  “ They will wear out like a garment;
>  “ Like clothes you will remove them and they will disappear.
###### 27
>  “ But you remain;
>  “ Your years do not come to an end.
###### 28
>  “ The children of your servants will settle down here,
>  “ And their descendants will live securely in your presence.”
