# Psalm 104
###### ¶ 1
> Praise the LORD, O my soul!
> O LORD my God, you are magnificent.
> You are robed in splendor and majesty.
###### 2
> He covers himself with light as if it were a garment.
> He stretches out the skies like a tent curtain,
###### 3
> And lays the beams of the upper rooms of his palace on the rain clouds.
> He makes the clouds his chariot,
> And travels on the wings of the wind.
###### 4
> He makes the winds his messengers,
> And the flaming fire his attendant.
###### ¶ 5
> He established the earth on its foundations;
> It will never be moved.
###### 6
> The watery deep covered it like a garment;
> The waters reached above the mountains.
###### 7
> Your shout made the waters retreat;
> At the sound of your thunderous voice they hurried off—
###### 8
> As the mountains rose up,
> And the valleys went down—
> To the place you appointed for them.
###### 9
> You set up a boundary for them that they could not cross,
> So that they would not cover the earth again.
###### ¶ 10
> He turns springs into streams;
> They flow between the mountains.
###### 11
> They provide water for all the animals in the field;
> The wild donkeys quench their thirst.
###### 12
> The birds of the sky live beside them;
> They chirp among the bushes.
###### 13
> He waters the mountains from the upper rooms of his palace;
> The earth is full of the fruit you cause to grow.
###### ¶ 14
> He provides grass for the cattle,
> And crops for people to cultivate,
> So they can produce food from the ground,
###### 15
> As well as wine that makes people glad,
> And olive oil to make their faces shine,
> As well as bread that sustains them.
###### 16
> The trees of the LORD receive all the rain they need,
> The cedars of Lebanon that he planted,
###### 17
> Where the birds make nests,
> Near the evergreens in which the herons live.
###### ¶ 18
> The wild goats live in the high mountains;
> The rock badgers find safety in the cliffs.
###### 19
> He made the moon to mark the months,
> And the sun sets according to a regular schedule.
###### 20
> You make it dark and night comes,
> During which all the beasts of the forest prowl around.
###### 21
> The lions roar for prey,
> Seeking their food from God.
###### 22
> When the sun rises, they withdraw
> And sleep in their dens.
###### 23
> People then go out to do their work,
> And they labor until evening.
###### ¶ 24
> How many living things you have made, O LORD!
> You have exhibited great skill in making all of them;
> The earth is full of the living things you have made.
###### 25
> Over here is the deep, wide sea,
> Which teems with innumerable swimming creatures,
> Living things both small and large.
###### 26
> The ships travel there,
> And over here swims the whale you made to play in it.
###### ¶ 27
> All your creatures wait for you
> To provide them with food on a regular basis.
###### 28
> You give food to them and they receive it;
> You open your hand and they are filled with food.
###### 29
> When you ignore them, they panic.
> When you take away their life’s breath,
> They die and return to dust.
###### 30
> When you send your life-giving breath, they are created,
> And you replenish the surface of the ground.
###### ¶ 31
> May the splendor of the LORD endure.
> May the LORD find pleasure in the living things he has made.
###### 32
> He looks down on the earth and it shakes;
> He touches the mountains and they start to smolder.
###### 33
> I will sing to the LORD as long as I live;
> I will sing praise to my God as long as I exist.
###### 34
> May my thoughts be pleasing to him.
> I will rejoice in the LORD.
###### 35
> May sinners disappear from the earth,
> And the wicked vanish.
> Praise the LORD, O my soul.
> Praise the LORD.
