# Psalm 103
###### ¶ 1
> Praise the LORD, O my soul.
> With all that is within me, praise his holy name.
###### 2
> Praise the LORD, O my soul.
> Do not forget all his kind deeds.
###### 3
> He is the one who forgives all your sins,
> Who heals all your diseases,
###### 4
> Who delivers your life from the Pit,
> Who crowns you with his loyal love and compassion,
###### 5
> Who satisfies your life with good things,
> So your youth is renewed like an eagle’s.
###### ¶ 6
> The LORD does what is fair,
> And executes justice for all the oppressed.
###### 7
> The LORD revealed his faithful acts to Moses,
> His deeds to the Israelites.
###### 8
> The LORD is compassionate and merciful;
> He is patient and demonstrates great loyal love.
###### 9
> He does not always accuse,
> And does not stay angry.
###### 10
> He does not deal with us as our sins deserve;
> He does not repay us as our misdeeds deserve.
###### 11
> For as the skies are high above the earth,
> So his loyal love towers over his faithful followers.
###### 12
> As far as the eastern horizon is from the west,
> So he removes the guilt of our rebellious actions from us.
###### 13
> As a father has compassion on his children,
> So the LORD has compassion on his faithful followers.
###### 14
> For he knows what we are made of;
> He realizes we are made of clay.
###### ¶ 15
> A person’s life is like grass.
> Like a flower in the field it flourishes,
###### 16
> But when the hot wind blows, it disappears,
> And one can no longer even spot the place where it once grew.
###### 17
> But the LORD continually shows loyal love to his faithful followers,
> And is faithful to their descendants,
###### 18
> To those who keep his covenant,
> Who are careful to obey his commands.
###### ¶ 19
> The LORD has established his throne in heaven;
> His kingdom extends over everything.
###### 20
> Praise the LORD, you angels of his,
> You powerful warriors who carry out his decrees
> And obey his orders.
###### 21
> Praise the LORD, all you warriors of his,
> You servants of his who carry out his desires.
###### 22
> Praise the LORD, all that he has made,
> In all the regions of his kingdom.
> Praise the LORD, O my soul.
