# Psalm 10
###### ¶ 1
> Why, LORD, do you stand far off?
> Why do you pay no attention during times of trouble?
###### 2
> The wicked arrogantly chase the oppressed;
> The oppressed are trapped by the schemes the wicked have dreamed up.
###### ¶ 3
> Yes, the wicked man boasts because he gets what he wants;
> The one who robs others curses and rejects the LORD.
###### 4
> The wicked man is so arrogant he always thinks,
>  “ God won’t hold me accountable; he doesn’t care.”
###### ¶ 5
> He is secure at all times.
> He has no regard for your commands;
> He disdains all his enemies.
###### 6
> He says to himself,
>  “ I will never be shaken,
>  “ Because I experience no calamity.”
###### 7
> His mouth is full of curses and deceptive, harmful words;
> His tongue injures and destroys.
###### 8
> He waits in ambush near the villages;
> In hidden places he kills the innocent.
> His eyes look for some unfortunate victim.
###### 9
> He lies in ambush in a hidden place, like a lion in a thicket.
> He lies in ambush, waiting to catch the oppressed;
> He catches the oppressed by pulling in his net.
###### 10
> His victims are crushed and beaten down;
> They are trapped in his sturdy nets.
###### 11
> He says to himself,
>  “ God overlooks it;
>  “ He does not pay attention;
>  “ He never notices.”
###### ¶ 12
> Rise up, LORD!
> O God, strike him down.
> Do not forget the oppressed.
###### 13
> Why does the wicked man reject God?
> He says to himself, “You will not hold me accountable.”
###### 14
> You have taken notice,
> For you always see one who inflicts pain and suffering.
> The unfortunate victim entrusts his cause to you;
> You deliver the fatherless.
###### 15
> Break the arm of the wicked and evil man.
> Hold him accountable for his wicked deeds,
> Which he thought you would not discover.
###### ¶ 16
> The LORD rules forever!
> The nations are driven out of his land.
###### 17
> LORD, you have heard the request of the oppressed;
> You make them feel secure because you listen to their prayer.
###### 18
> You defend the fatherless and oppressed,
> So that mere mortals may no longer terrorize them.
