# Psalm 106
###### ¶ 1
> Praise the LORD.
> Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good,
> And his loyal love endures.
###### 2
> Who can adequately recount the LORD’s mighty acts,
> Or relate all his praiseworthy deeds?
###### 3
> How blessed are those who promote justice,
> And do what is right all the time.
###### ¶ 4
> Remember me, O LORD, when you show favor to your people.
> Pay attention to me, when you deliver,
###### 5
> So I may see the prosperity of your chosen ones,
> Rejoice along with your nation,
> And boast along with the people who belong to you.
###### ¶ 6
> We have sinned like our ancestors;
> We have done wrong, we have done evil.
###### 7
> Our ancestors in Egypt failed to appreciate your miraculous deeds.
> They failed to remember your many acts of loyal love,
> And they rebelled at the sea, by the Red Sea.
###### 8
> Yet he delivered them for the sake of his reputation,
> That he might reveal his power.
###### 9
> He shouted at the Red Sea and it dried up;
> He led them through the deep water as if it were a desert.
###### 10
> He delivered them from the power of the one who hated them,
> And rescued them from the power of the enemy.
###### 11
> The water covered their enemies;
> Not even one of them survived.
###### 12
> They believed his promises;
> They sang praises to him.
###### ¶ 13
> They quickly forgot what he had done;
> They did not wait for his instructions.
###### 14
> In the wilderness they had an insatiable craving for meat;
> They challenged God in the wastelands.
###### 15
> He granted their request,
> Then struck them with a disease.
###### ¶ 16
> In the camp they resented Moses,
> And Aaron, the LORD’s holy priest.
###### 17
> The earth opened up and swallowed Dathan;
> It engulfed the group led by Abiram.
###### 18
> Fire burned their group;
> The flames scorched the wicked.
###### ¶ 19
> They made an image of a calf at Horeb,
> And worshiped a metal idol.
###### 20
> They traded their majestic God
> For the image of an ox that eats grass.
###### 21
> They rejected the God who delivered them,
> The one who performed great deeds in Egypt,
###### 22
> Amazing feats in the land of Ham,
> Mighty acts by the Red Sea.
###### 23
> He threatened to destroy them,
> But Moses, his chosen one, interceded with him
> And turned back his destructive anger.
###### 24
> They rejected the fruitful land;
> They did not believe his promise.
###### 25
> They grumbled in their tents;
> They did not obey the LORD.
###### 26
> So he made a solemn vow
> That he would make them die in the wilderness,
###### 27
> Make their descendants die among the nations,
> And scatter them among foreign lands.
###### ¶ 28
> They worshiped Baal of Peor,
> And ate sacrifices offered to the dead.
###### 29
> They made the LORD angry by their actions,
> And a plague broke out among them.
###### 30
> Phinehas took a stand and intervened,
> And the plague subsided.
###### 31
> This was credited to Phinehas as a righteous act
> For all generations to come.
###### ¶ 32
> They made him angry by the waters of Meribah,
> And Moses suffered because of them,
###### 33
> For they aroused his temper,
> And he spoke rashly.
###### ¶ 34
> They did not destroy the nations,
> As the LORD had commanded them to do.
###### 35
> They mixed in with the nations
> And learned their ways.
###### 36
> They worshiped their idols,
> Which became a snare to them.
###### 37
> They sacrificed their sons and daughters to demons.
###### 38
> They shed innocent blood—
> The blood of their sons and daughters,
> Whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan.
> The land was polluted by bloodshed.
###### 39
> They were defiled by their deeds,
> And unfaithful in their actions.
###### ¶ 40
> So the LORD was angry with his people
> And despised the people who belonged to him.
###### 41
> He handed them over to the nations,
> And those who hated them ruled over them.
###### 42
> Their enemies oppressed them;
> They were subject to their authority.
###### 43
> Many times he delivered them,
> But they had a rebellious attitude,
> And degraded themselves by their sin.
###### ¶ 44
> Yet he took notice of their distress,
> When he heard their cry for help.
###### 45
> He remembered his covenant with them,
> And relented because of his great loyal love.
###### 46
> He caused all their conquerors
> To have pity on them.
###### ¶ 47
> Deliver us, O LORD, our God.
> Gather us from among the nations.
> Then we will give thanks to your holy name,
> And boast about your praiseworthy deeds.
###### 48
> The LORD God of Israel deserves praise,
> In the future and forevermore.
> Let all the people say, “We agree! Praise the LORD!”
