# Psalm 115
###### ¶ 1
> Not to us, O LORD, not to us,
> But to your name bring honor,
> For the sake of your loyal love and faithfulness.
###### 2
> Why should the nations say,
>  “ Where is their God?”
###### 3
> Our God is in heaven.
> He does whatever he pleases.
###### 4
> Their idols are made of silver and gold—
> They are man-made.
###### 5
> They have mouths, but cannot speak,
> Eyes, but cannot see,
###### 6
> Ears, but cannot hear,
> Noses, but cannot smell,
###### 7
> Hands, but cannot touch,
> Feet, but cannot walk.
> They cannot even clear their throats.
###### 8
> Those who make them will end up like them,
> As will everyone who trusts in them.
###### ¶ 9
> O Israel, trust in the LORD.
> He is their deliverer and protector.
###### 10
> O family of Aaron, trust in the LORD.
> He is their deliverer and protector.
###### 11
> You loyal followers of the LORD, trust in the LORD.
> He is their deliverer and protector.
###### 12
> The LORD takes notice of us; he will bless—
> He will bless the family of Israel,
> He will bless the family of Aaron.
###### 13
> He will bless his loyal followers,
> Both young and old.
###### 14
> May he increase your numbers,
> Yours and your children’s.
###### 15
> May you be blessed by the LORD,
> The Creator of heaven and earth.
###### ¶ 16
> The heavens belong to the LORD,
> But the earth he has given to mankind.
###### 17
> The dead do not praise the LORD,
> Nor do any of those who descend into the silence of death.
###### 18
> But we will praise the LORD
> Now and forevermore.
> Praise the LORD!
