# Psalm 116
###### ¶ 1
> I love the LORD
> Because he heard my plea for mercy,
###### 2
> And listened to me.
> As long as I live, I will call to him when I need help.
###### 3
> The ropes of death tightened around me,
> The snares of Sheol confronted me.
> I was confronted with trouble and sorrow.
###### 4
> I called on the name of the LORD,
>  “ Please, LORD, rescue my life!”
###### ¶ 5
> The LORD is merciful and fair;
> Our God is compassionate.
###### 6
> The LORD protects the untrained;
> I was in serious trouble and he delivered me.
###### 7
> Rest once more, my soul,
> For the LORD has vindicated you.
###### 8
> Yes, LORD, you rescued my life from death,
> Kept my eyes from tears
> And my feet from stumbling.
###### 9
> I will serve the LORD
> In the land of the living.
###### 10
> I had faith when I said,
>  “ I am severely oppressed.”
###### 11
> I rashly declared,
>  “ All men are liars.”
###### ¶ 12
> How can I repay the LORD
> For all his acts of kindness to me?
###### 13
> I will celebrate my deliverance,
> And call on the name of the LORD.
###### 14
> I will fulfill my vows to the LORD
> Before all his people.
###### 15
> The LORD values
> The lives of his faithful followers.
###### 16
> Yes, LORD! I am indeed your servant;
> I am your servant, the son of your female servant.
> You saved me from death.
###### 17
> I will present a thank offering to you,
> And call on the name of the LORD.
###### 18
> I will fulfill my vows to the LORD
> Before all his people,
###### 19
> In the courts of the LORD’s temple,
> In your midst, O Jerusalem.
> Praise the LORD!
