# Psalm 132
###### ¶ 1
> O LORD, for David’s sake remember
> All his strenuous effort,
###### 2
> And how he made a vow to the LORD,
> And swore an oath to the Powerful One of Jacob.
###### 3
> He said, “I will not enter my own home,
>  “ Or get into my bed.
###### 4
>  “ I will not allow my eyes to sleep,
>  “ Or my eyelids to slumber,
###### 5
>  “ Until I find a place for the LORD,
>  “ A fine dwelling place for the Powerful One of Jacob.”
###### ¶ 6
> Look, we heard about it in Ephrathah;
> We found it in the territory of Jaar.
###### 7
> Let us go to his dwelling place.
> Let us worship before his footstool.
###### 8
> Ascend, O LORD, to your resting place,
> You and the ark of your strength.
###### 9
> May your priests be clothed with integrity.
> May your loyal followers shout for joy.
###### ¶ 10
> For the sake of David, your servant,
> Do not reject your chosen king.
###### 11
> The LORD made a reliable promise to David;
> He will not go back on his word.
> He said, “I will place one of your descendants on your throne.
###### 12
>  “ If your sons keep my covenant
>  “ And the rules I teach them,
>  “ Their sons will also sit on your throne forever.”
###### ¶ 13
> Certainly the LORD has chosen Zion;
> He decided to make it his home.
###### 14
> He said, “This will be my resting place forever;
>  “ I will live here, for I have chosen it.
###### 15
>  “ I will abundantly supply what she needs;
>  “ I will give her poor all the food they need.
###### 16
>  “ I will protect her priests,
>  “ And her godly people will shout exuberantly.
###### 17
>  “ There I will make David strong;
>  “ I have determined that my chosen king’s dynasty will continue.
###### 18
>  “ I will humiliate his enemies,
>  “ And his crown will shine.”
