# Psalm 135
###### ¶ 1
> Praise the LORD.
> Praise the name of the LORD.
> Offer praise, you servants of the LORD,
###### 2
> Who serve in the LORD’s temple,
> In the courts of the temple of our God.
###### 3
> Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good.
> Sing praises to his name, for it is pleasant.
###### 4
> Indeed, the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself,
> Israel to be his special possession.
###### ¶ 5
> Yes, I know the LORD is great,
> And our Lord is superior to all gods.
###### 6
> He does whatever he pleases
> In heaven and on earth,
> In the seas and all the ocean depths.
###### 7
> He causes the clouds to arise from the end of the earth,
> Makes lightning bolts accompany the rain,
> And brings the wind out of his storehouses.
###### ¶ 8
> He struck down the firstborn of Egypt,
> Including both men and animals.
###### 9
> He performed awesome deeds and acts of judgment
> In your midst, O Egypt,
> Against Pharaoh and all his servants.
###### 10
> He defeated many nations,
> And killed mighty kings—
###### 11
> Sihon, king of the Amorites,
> And Og, king of Bashan,
> And all the kingdoms of Canaan.
###### 12
> He gave their land as an inheritance,
> As an inheritance to Israel his people.
###### 13
> O LORD, your name endures,
> Your reputation, O LORD, lasts.
###### 14
> For the LORD vindicates his people,
> And has compassion on his servants.
###### 15
> The nations’ idols are made of silver and gold;
> They are man-made.
###### 16
> They have mouths, but cannot speak,
> Eyes, but cannot see,
###### 17
> And ears, but cannot hear.
> Indeed, they cannot breathe.
###### 18
> Those who make them will end up like them,
> As will everyone who trusts in them.
###### ¶ 19
> O family of Israel, praise the LORD.
> O family of Aaron, praise the LORD.
###### 20
> O family of Levi, praise the LORD.
> You loyal followers of the LORD, praise the LORD.
###### 21
> The LORD deserves praise in Zion—
> He who dwells in Jerusalem.
> Praise the LORD.
