# Psalm 139
###### ¶ 1
> O LORD, you examine me and know me.
###### 2
> You know when I sit down and when I get up;
> Even from far away you understand my motives.
###### 3
> You carefully observe me when I travel or when I lie down to rest;
> You are aware of everything I do.
###### 4
> Certainly my tongue does not frame a word
> Without you, O LORD, being thoroughly aware of it.
###### 5
> You squeeze me in from behind and in front;
> You place your hand on me.
###### 6
> Your knowledge is beyond my comprehension;
> It is so far beyond me, I am unable to fathom it.
###### ¶ 7
> Where can I go to escape your Spirit?
> Where can I flee to escape your presence?
###### 8
> If I were to ascend to heaven, you would be there.
> If I were to sprawl out in Sheol, there you would be.
###### 9
> If I were to fly away on the wings of the dawn,
> And settle down on the other side of the sea,
###### 10
> Even there your hand would guide me,
> Your right hand would grab hold of me.
###### 11
> If I were to say, “Certainly the darkness will cover me,
>  “ And the light will turn to night all around me,”
###### 12
> Even the darkness is not too dark for you to see,
> And the night is as bright as day;
> Darkness and light are the same to you.
###### ¶ 13
> Certainly you made my mind and heart;
> You wove me together in my mother’s womb.
###### 14
> I will give you thanks because your deeds are awesome and amazing.
> You knew me thoroughly;
###### 15
> My bones were not hidden from you,
> When I was made in secret
> And sewed together in the depths of the earth.
###### 16
> Your eyes saw me when I was inside the womb.
> All the days ordained for me
> Were recorded in your scroll
> Before one of them came into existence.
###### ¶ 17
> How difficult it is for me to fathom your thoughts about me, O God!
> How vast is their sum total.
###### 18
> If I tried to count them,
> They would outnumber the grains of sand.
> Even if I finished counting them,
> I would still have to contend with you.
###### ¶ 19
> If only you would kill the wicked, O God!
> Get away from me, you violent men!
###### 20
> They rebel against you and act deceitfully;
> Your enemies lie.
###### 21
> O LORD, do I not hate those who hate you,
> And despise those who oppose you?
###### 22
> I absolutely hate them;
> They have become my enemies.
###### ¶ 23
> Examine me, O God, and probe my thoughts.
> Test me, and know my concerns.
###### 24
> See if there is any idolatrous way in me,
> And lead me in the everlasting way.
