# Psalm 145
###### ¶ 1
> I will extol you, my God, O King.
> I will praise your name continually.
###### 2
> Every day I will praise you.
> I will praise your name continually.
###### 3
> The LORD is great and certainly worthy of praise.
> No one can fathom his greatness.
###### 4
> One generation will praise your deeds to another,
> And tell about your mighty acts.
###### 5
> I will focus on your honor and majestic splendor,
> And your amazing deeds.
###### 6
> They will proclaim the power of your awesome acts.
> I will declare your great deeds.
###### 7
> They will talk about the fame of your great kindness,
> And sing about your justice.
###### ¶ 8
> The LORD is merciful and compassionate;
> He is patient and demonstrates great loyal love.
###### 9
> The LORD is good to all,
> And has compassion on all he has made.
###### 10
> All your works will give thanks to you, LORD.
> Your loyal followers will praise you.
###### 11
> They will proclaim the splendor of your kingdom;
> They will tell about your power,
###### 12
> So that mankind might acknowledge your mighty acts,
> And the majestic splendor of your kingdom.
###### 13
> Your kingdom is an eternal kingdom,
> And your dominion endures through all generations.
###### ¶ 14
> The LORD supports all who fall,
> And lifts up all who are bent over.
###### 15
> Everything looks to you in anticipation,
> And you provide them with food on a regular basis.
###### 16
> You open your hand,
> And fill every living thing with the food it desires.
###### ¶ 17
> The LORD is just in all his actions,
> And exhibits love in all he does.
###### 18
> The LORD is near all who cry out to him,
> All who cry out to him sincerely.
###### 19
> He satisfies the desire of his loyal followers;
> He hears their cry for help and delivers them.
###### 20
> The LORD protects all those who love him,
> But he destroys all the wicked.
###### 21
> My mouth will praise the LORD.
> Let all who live praise his holy name forever.
