# Psalm 144
###### ¶ 1
> The LORD, my Protector, deserves praise—
> The one who trains my hands for battle,
> And my fingers for war,
###### 2
> Who loves me and is my stronghold,
> My refuge and my deliverer,
> My shield and the one in whom I take shelter,
> Who makes nations submit to me.
###### 3
> O LORD, of what importance is the human race, that you should notice them?
> Of what importance is mankind, that you should be concerned about them?
###### 4
> People are like a vapor,
> Their days like a shadow that disappears.
###### ¶ 5
> O LORD, make the sky sink and come down.
> Touch the mountains and make them smolder.
###### 6
> Hurl lightning bolts and scatter the enemy.
> Shoot your arrows and rout them.
###### 7
> Reach down from above.
> Grab me and rescue me from the surging water,
> From the power of foreigners,
###### 8
> Who speak lies,
> And make false promises.
###### ¶ 9
> O God, I will sing a new song to you.
> Accompanied by a ten-stringed instrument, I will sing praises to you,
###### 10
> The one who delivers kings,
> And rescued David his servant from a deadly sword.
###### 11
> Grab me and rescue me from the power of foreigners,
> Who speak lies,
> And make false promises.
###### ¶ 12
> Then our sons will be like plants,
> That quickly grow to full size.
> Our daughters will be like corner pillars,
> Carved like those in a palace.
###### 13
> Our storehouses will be full,
> Providing all kinds of food.
> Our sheep will multiply by the thousands
> And fill our pastures.
###### 14
> Our cattle will be weighted down with produce.
> No one will break through our walls,
> No one will be taken captive,
> And there will be no terrified cries in our city squares.
###### 15
> How blessed are the people who experience these things.
> How blessed are the people whose God is the LORD.
