# Psalm 18
###### ¶ 1
> He said:
> “I love you, LORD, my source of strength!
###### 2
> “The LORD is my high ridge, my stronghold, my deliverer.
> “My God is my rocky summit where I take shelter,
> “My shield, the horn that saves me, and my refuge.
###### 3
> “I called to the LORD, who is worthy of praise,
> “And I was delivered from my enemies.
###### ¶ 4
> “The waves of death engulfed me,
> “The currents of chaos overwhelmed me.
###### 5
> “The ropes of Sheol tightened around me,
> “The snares of death trapped me.
###### 6
> “In my distress I called to the LORD;
> “I cried out to my God.
> “From his heavenly temple he heard my voice;
> “He listened to my cry for help.
###### ¶ 7
> “The earth heaved and shook.
> “The roots of the mountains trembled;
> “They heaved because he was angry.
###### 8
> “Smoke ascended from his nose;
> “Fire devoured as it came from his mouth.
> “He hurled down fiery coals.
###### 9
> “He made the sky sink as he descended;
> “A thick cloud was under his feet.
###### 10
> “He mounted a winged angel and flew;
> “He glided on the wings of the wind.
###### 11
> “He shrouded himself in darkness,
> “In thick rain clouds.
###### 12
> “From the brightness in front of him came
> “Hail and fiery coals.
###### 13
> “The LORD thundered in the sky;
> “The Most High shouted.
###### 14
> “He shot his arrows and scattered them,
> “Many lightning bolts and routed them.
###### 15
> “The depths of the sea were exposed;
> “The inner regions of the world were uncovered
> “By your battle cry, LORD,
> “By the powerful breath from your nose.
###### ¶ 16
> “He reached down from above and took hold of me;
> “He pulled me from the surging water.
###### 17
> “He rescued me from my strong enemy,
> “From those who hate me,
> “For they were too strong for me.
###### 18
> “They confronted me in my day of calamity,
> “But the LORD helped me.
###### 19
> “He brought me out into a wide open place;
> “He delivered me because he was pleased with me.
###### ¶ 20
> “The LORD repaid me for my godly deeds;
> “He rewarded my blameless behavior.
###### 21
> “For I have obeyed the LORD’s commands;
> “I have not rebelled against my God.
###### 22
> “For I am aware of all his regulations,
> “And I do not reject his rules.
###### 23
> “I was innocent before him,
> “And kept myself from sinning.
###### 24
> “The LORD rewarded me for my godly deeds;
> “He took notice of my blameless behavior.
###### ¶ 25
> “You prove to be loyal to one who is faithful;
> “You prove to be trustworthy to one who is innocent.
###### 26
> “You prove to be reliable to one who is blameless,
> “But you prove to be deceptive to one who is perverse.
###### 27
> “For you deliver oppressed people,
> “But you bring down those who have a proud look.
###### 28
> “Indeed, you light my lamp, LORD.
> “My God illuminates the darkness around me.
###### 29
> “Indeed, with your help I can charge against an army;
> “By my God’s power I can jump over a wall.
###### ¶ 30
> “The one true God acts in a faithful manner;
> “The LORD’s promise is reliable.
> “He is a shield to all who take shelter in him.
###### 31
> “Indeed, who is God besides the LORD?
> “Who is a protector besides our God?
###### 32
> “The one true God gives me strength;
> “He removes the obstacles in my way.
###### 33
> “He gives me the agility of a deer;
> “He enables me to negotiate the rugged terrain.
###### 34
> “He trains my hands for battle;
> “My arms can bend even the strongest bow.
###### 35
> “You give me your protective shield;
> “Your right hand supports me.
> “Your willingness to help enables me to prevail.
###### 36
> “You widen my path;
> “My feet do not slip.
###### ¶ 37
> “I chase my enemies and catch them;
> “I do not turn back until I wipe them out.
###### 38
> “I beat them to death;
> “They fall at my feet.
###### 39
> “You give me strength for battle;
> “You make my foes kneel before me.
###### 40
> “You make my enemies retreat;
> “I destroy those who hate me.
###### 41
> “They cry out, but there is no one to help them;
> “They cry out to the LORD, but he does not answer them.
###### 42
> “I grind them as fine windblown dust;
> “I beat them underfoot like clay in the streets.
###### ¶ 43
> “You rescue me from a hostile army.
> “You make me a leader of nations;
> “People over whom I had no authority are now my subjects.
###### 44
> “When they hear of my exploits, they submit to me.
> “Foreigners are powerless before me.
###### 45
> “Foreigners lose their courage;
> “They shake with fear as they leave their strongholds.
###### ¶ 46
> “The LORD is alive!
> “My Protector is praiseworthy.
> “The God who delivers me is exalted as king.
###### 47
> “The one true God completely vindicates me;
> “He makes nations submit to me.
###### 48
> “He delivers me from my enemies.
> “You snatch me away from those who attack me;
> “You rescue me from violent men.
###### 49
> “So I will give you thanks before the nations, O LORD.
> “I will sing praises to you.
###### 50
> “He gives his king magnificent victories;
> “He is faithful to his chosen ruler,
> “To David and his descendants forever.”
