# Psalm 19
###### ¶ 1
> The heavens declare the glory of God;
> The sky displays his handiwork.
###### 2
> Day after day it speaks out;
> Night after night it reveals his greatness.
###### 3
> There is no actual speech or word,
> Nor is its voice literally heard.
###### 4
> Yet its voice echoes throughout the earth;
> Its words carry to the distant horizon.
> In the sky he has pitched a tent for the sun.
###### 5
> Like a bridegroom it emerges from its chamber;
> Like a strong man it enjoys running its course.
###### 6
> It emerges from the distant horizon,
> And goes from one end of the sky to the other;
> Nothing can escape its heat.
###### ¶ 7
> The law of the LORD is perfect
> And preserves one’s life.
> The rules set down by the LORD are reliable
> And impart wisdom to the inexperienced.
###### 8
> The LORD’s precepts are fair
> And make one joyful.
> The LORD’s commands are pure
> And give insight for life.
###### 9
> The commands to fear the LORD are right
> And endure forever.
> The judgments given by the LORD are trustworthy
> And absolutely just.
###### 10
> They are of greater value than gold,
> Than even a great amount of pure gold;
> They bring greater delight than honey,
> Than even the sweetest honey from a honeycomb.
###### 11
> Yes, your servant finds moral guidance there;
> Those who obey them receive a rich reward.
###### 12
> Who can know all his errors?
> Please do not punish me for sins I am unaware of.
###### 13
> Moreover, keep me from committing flagrant sins;
> Do not allow such sins to control me.
> Then I will be blameless,
> And innocent of blatant rebellion.
###### 14
> May my words and my thoughts
> Be acceptable in your sight,
> O LORD, my sheltering rock and my redeemer.
