# Psalm 22
###### ¶ 1
> My God, my God, why have you abandoned me?
> I groan in prayer, but help seems far away.
###### 2
> My God, I cry out during the day,
> But you do not answer,
> And during the night my prayers do not let up.
###### 3
> You are holy;
> You sit as king receiving the praises of Israel.
###### 4
> In you our ancestors trusted;
> They trusted in you and you rescued them.
###### 5
> To you they cried out, and they were saved;
> In you they trusted and they were not disappointed.
###### ¶ 6
> But I am a worm, not a man;
> People insult me and despise me.
###### 7
> All who see me taunt me;
> They mock me and shake their heads.
###### 8
> They say,
>  “ Commit yourself to the LORD!
>  “ Let the LORD rescue him!
>  “ Let the LORD deliver him, for he delights in him.”
###### ¶ 9
> Yes, you are the one who brought me out from the womb
> And made me feel secure on my mother’s breasts.
###### 10
> I have been dependent on you since birth;
> From the time I came out of my mother’s womb you have been my God.
###### ¶ 11
> Do not remain far away from me,
> For trouble is near and I have no one to help me.
###### 12
> Many bulls surround me;
> Powerful bulls of Bashan hem me in.
###### 13
> They open their mouths to devour me
> Like a roaring lion that rips its prey.
###### 14
> My strength drains away like water;
> All my bones are dislocated.
> My heart is like wax;
> It melts away inside me.
###### 15
> The roof of my mouth is as dry as a piece of pottery;
> My tongue sticks to my gums.
> You set me in the dust of death.
###### 16
> Yes, wild dogs surround me—
> A gang of evil men crowd around me;
> Like a lion they pin my hands and feet.
###### 17
> I can count all my bones;
> My enemies are gloating over me in triumph.
###### 18
> They are dividing up my clothes among themselves;
> They are rolling dice for my garments.
###### ¶ 19
> But you, O LORD, do not remain far away.
> You are my source of strength. Hurry and help me!
###### 20
> Deliver me from the sword.
> Save my life from the claws of the wild dogs.
###### 21
> Rescue me from the mouth of the lion,
> And from the horns of the wild oxen.
> You have answered me.
###### ¶ 22
> I will declare your name to my countrymen.
> In the middle of the assembly I will praise you.
###### 23
> You loyal followers of the LORD, praise him.
> All you descendants of Jacob, honor him.
> All you descendants of Israel, stand in awe of him.
###### 24
> For he did not despise or detest the suffering of the oppressed.
> He did not ignore him;
> When he cried out to him, he responded.
###### ¶ 25
> You are the reason I offer praise in the great assembly;
> I will fulfill my promises before the LORD’s loyal followers.
###### 26
> Let the oppressed eat and be filled.
> Let those who seek his help praise the LORD.
> May you live forever!
###### 27
> Let all the people of the earth acknowledge the LORD and turn to him.
> Let all the nations worship you.
###### 28
> For the LORD is king
> And rules over the nations.
###### 29
> All the thriving people of the earth will join the celebration and worship;
> All those who are descending into the grave will bow before him,
> Including those who cannot preserve their lives.
###### 30
> A whole generation will serve him;
> They will tell the next generation about the Lord.
###### 31
> They will come and tell about his saving deeds;
> They will tell a future generation what he has accomplished.
