# Psalm 25
###### ¶ 1
> O LORD, I come before you in prayer.
###### 2
> My God, I trust in you.
> Please do not let me be humiliated;
> Do not let my enemies triumphantly rejoice over me.
###### 3
> Certainly none who rely on you will be humiliated.
> Those who deal in treachery will be thwarted and humiliated.
###### ¶ 4
> Make me understand your ways, O LORD.
> Teach me your paths.
###### 5
> Guide me into your truth and teach me.
> For you are the God who delivers me;
> On you I rely all day long.
###### 6
> Remember your compassionate and faithful deeds, O LORD,
> For you have always acted in this manner.
###### 7
> Do not hold against me the sins of my youth or my rebellious acts.
> Because you are faithful to me, extend to me your favor, O LORD.
###### ¶ 8
> The LORD is both kind and fair;
> That is why he teaches sinners the right way to live.
###### 9
> May he show the humble what is right.
> May he teach the humble his way.
###### 10
> The LORD always proves faithful and reliable
> To those who follow the demands of his covenant.
###### 11
> For the sake of your reputation, O LORD,
> Forgive my sin, because it is great.
###### ¶ 12
> The LORD shows his faithful followers
> The way they should live.
###### 13
> They experience his favor;
> Their descendants inherit the land.
###### 14
> The LORD’s loyal followers receive his guidance,
> And he reveals his covenantal demands to them.
###### 15
> I continually look to the LORD for help,
> For he will free my feet from the enemy’s net.
###### ¶ 16
> Turn toward me and have mercy on me,
> For I am alone and oppressed.
###### 17
> Deliver me from my distress;
> Rescue me from my suffering.
###### 18
> See my pain and suffering.
> Forgive all my sins.
###### 19
> Watch my enemies, for they outnumber me;
> They hate me and want to harm me.
###### 20
> Protect me and deliver me!
> Please do not let me be humiliated,
> For I have taken shelter in you.
###### 21
> May integrity and godliness protect me,
> For I rely on you.
###### 22
> O God, rescue Israel
> From all their distress!
