# Psalm 27
###### ¶ 1
> The LORD is my light and my salvation.
> I fear no one.
> The LORD protects my life.
> I am afraid of no one.
###### 2
> When evil men attack me
> To devour my flesh,
> When my adversaries and enemies attack me,
> They stumble and fall.
###### 3
> Even when an army is deployed against me,
> I do not fear.
> Even when war is imminent,
> I remain confident.
###### ¶ 4
> I have asked the LORD for one thing—
> This is what I desire!
> I want to live in the LORD’s house all the days of my life,
> So I can gaze at the splendor of the LORD
> And contemplate in his temple.
###### 5
> He will surely give me shelter in the day of danger;
> He will hide me in his home.
> He will place me on an inaccessible rocky summit.
###### 6
> Now I will triumph
> Over my enemies who surround me.
> I will offer sacrifices in his dwelling place and shout for joy.
> I will sing praises to the LORD.
###### ¶ 7
> Hear me, O LORD, when I cry out.
> Have mercy on me and answer me.
###### 8
> My heart tells me to pray to you,
> And I do pray to you, O LORD.
###### 9
> Do not reject me.
> Do not push your servant away in anger.
> You are my deliverer.
> Do not forsake or abandon me,
> O God who vindicates me.
###### 10
> Even if my father and mother abandoned me,
> The LORD would take me in.
###### ¶ 11
> Teach me how you want me to live, LORD;
> Lead me along a level path because of those who wait to ambush me.
###### 12
> Do not turn me over to my enemies,
> For false witnesses who want to destroy me testify against me.
###### 13
> Where would I be if I did not believe I would experience
> The LORD’s favor in the land of the living?
###### 14
> Rely on the LORD!
> Be strong and confident!
> Rely on the LORD!
