# Psalm 33
###### ¶ 1
> You godly ones, shout for joy because of the LORD!
> It is appropriate for the morally upright to offer him praise.
###### 2
> Give thanks to the LORD with the harp.
> Sing to him to the accompaniment of a ten-stringed instrument.
###### 3
> Sing to him a new song.
> Play skillfully as you shout out your praises to him.
###### 4
> For the LORD’s decrees are just,
> And everything he does is fair.
###### 5
> He promotes equity and justice;
> The LORD’s faithfulness extends throughout the earth.
###### ¶ 6
> By the LORD’s decree the heavens were made,
> And by the breath of his mouth all the starry hosts.
###### 7
> He piles up the water of the sea;
> He puts the oceans in storehouses.
###### 8
> Let the whole earth fear the LORD.
> Let all who live in the world stand in awe of him.
###### 9
> For he spoke, and it came into existence.
> He issued the decree, and it stood firm.
###### 10
> The LORD frustrates the decisions of the nations;
> He nullifies the plans of the peoples.
###### 11
> The LORD’s decisions stand forever;
> His plans abide throughout the ages.
###### 12
> How blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD,
> The people whom he has chosen to be his special possession.
###### ¶ 13
> The LORD watches from heaven;
> He sees all people.
###### 14
> From the place where he lives he looks carefully
> At all the earth’s inhabitants.
###### 15
> He is the one who forms every human heart,
> And takes note of all their actions.
###### 16
> No king is delivered by his vast army;
> A warrior is not saved by his great might.
###### 17
> A horse disappoints those who trust in it for victory;
> Despite its great strength, it cannot deliver.
###### ¶ 18
> Look, the LORD takes notice of his loyal followers,
> Those who wait for him to demonstrate his faithfulness
###### 19
> By saving their lives from death
> And sustaining them during times of famine.
###### 20
> We wait for the LORD;
> He is our deliverer and shield.
###### 21
> For our hearts rejoice in him,
> For we trust in his holy name.
###### 22
> May we experience your faithfulness, O LORD,
> For we wait for you.
