# Psalm 35
###### ¶ 1
> O LORD, fight those who fight with me.
> Attack those who attack me.
###### 2
> Grab your small shield and large shield,
> And rise up to help me.
###### 3
> Use your spear and lance against those who chase me.
> Assure me with these words: “I am your deliverer.”
###### 4
> May those who seek my life be embarrassed and humiliated.
> May those who plan to harm me be turned back and ashamed.
###### 5
> May they be like wind-driven chaff,
> As the angel of the LORD attacks them.
###### 6
> May their path be dark and slippery,
> As the angel of the LORD chases them.
###### 7
> I did not harm them, but they hid a net to catch me
> And dug a pit to trap me.
###### 8
> Let destruction take them by surprise.
> Let the net they hid catch them.
> Let them fall into destruction.
###### ¶ 9
> Then I will rejoice in the LORD
> And be happy because of his deliverance.
###### 10
> With all my strength I will say,
> “O LORD, who can compare to you?
> “You rescue the oppressed from those who try to overpower them,
> “The oppressed and needy from those who try to rob them.”
###### 11
> Violent men perjure themselves,
> And falsely accuse me.
###### 12
> They repay me evil for the good I have done;
> I am overwhelmed with sorrow.
###### 13
> When they were sick, I wore sackcloth,
> And refrained from eating food.
> (If I am lying, may my prayers go unanswered.)
###### 14
> I mourned for them as I would for a friend or my brother.
> I bowed down in sorrow as if I were mourning for my mother.
###### 15
> But when I stumbled, they rejoiced and gathered together;
> They gathered together to ambush me.
> They tore at me without stopping to rest.
###### 16
> When I tripped, they taunted me relentlessly,
> And tried to bite me.
###### ¶ 17
> O Lord, how long are you going to watch this?
> Rescue me from their destructive attacks;
> Guard my life from the young lions.
###### 18
> Then I will give you thanks in the great assembly;
> I will praise you before a large crowd of people.
###### 19
> Do not let those who are my enemies for no reason gloat over me.
> Do not let those who hate me without cause carry out their wicked schemes.
###### 20
> For they do not try to make peace with others,
> But plan ways to deceive those who live peacefully in the land.
###### 21
> They are ready to devour me;
> They say, “Aha! Aha! We’ve got you!”
###### ¶ 22
> But you take notice, LORD; do not be silent!
> O Lord, do not remain far away from me.
###### 23
> Rouse yourself, wake up and vindicate me.
> My God and Lord, defend my just cause.
###### 24
> Vindicate me by your justice, O LORD my God.
> Do not let them gloat over me.
###### 25
> Do not let them say to themselves, “Aha! We have what we wanted!”
> Do not let them say, “We have devoured him.”
###### 26
> May those who rejoice in my troubles be totally embarrassed and ashamed.
> May those who arrogantly taunt me be covered with shame and humiliation.
###### ¶ 27
> May those who desire my vindication shout for joy and rejoice.
> May they continually say, “May the LORD be praised, for he wants his servant to be secure.”
###### 28
> Then I will tell others about your justice,
> And praise you all day long.
