# Psalm 37
###### ¶ 1
> Do not fret when wicked men seem to succeed.
> Do not envy evildoers.
###### 2
> For they will quickly dry up like grass,
> And wither away like plants.
###### 3
> Trust in the LORD and do what is right.
> Settle in the land and maintain your integrity.
###### 4
> Then you will take delight in the LORD,
> And he will answer your prayers.
###### 5
> Commit your future to the LORD.
> Trust in him, and he will act on your behalf.
###### 6
> He will vindicate you in broad daylight,
> And publicly defend your just cause.
###### ¶ 7
> Wait patiently for the LORD!
> Wait confidently for him!
> Do not fret over the apparent success of a sinner,
> A man who carries out wicked schemes.
###### 8
> Do not be angry and frustrated.
> Do not fret. That only leads to trouble.
###### 9
> Wicked men will be wiped out,
> But those who rely on the LORD are the ones who will possess the land.
###### 10
> Evil men will soon disappear;
> You will stare at the spot where they once were, but they will be gone.
###### 11
> But the oppressed will possess the land
> And enjoy great prosperity.
###### ¶ 12
> Evil men plot against the godly
> And viciously attack them.
###### 13
> The Lord laughs in disgust at them,
> For he knows that their day is coming.
###### 14
> Evil men draw their swords
> And prepare their bows,
> To bring down the oppressed and needy,
> And to slaughter those who are godly.
###### 15
> Their swords will pierce their own hearts,
> And their bows will be broken.
###### ¶ 16
> The little bit that a godly man owns is better than
> The wealth of many evil men,
###### 17
> For evil men will lose their power,
> But the LORD sustains the godly.
###### 18
> The LORD watches over the innocent day by day,
> And they possess a permanent inheritance.
###### 19
> They will not be ashamed when hard times come;
> When famine comes they will have enough to eat.
###### 20
> But evil men will die;
> The LORD’s enemies will be incinerated—
> They will go up in smoke.
###### 21
> Evil men borrow, but do not repay their debt,
> But the godly show compassion and are generous.
###### 22
> Surely those favored by the LORD will possess the land,
> But those rejected by him will be wiped out.
###### ¶ 23
> The LORD grants success to the one
> Whose behavior he finds commendable.
###### 24
> Even if he trips, he will not fall headlong,
> For the LORD holds his hand.
###### 25
> I was once young, now I am old.
> I have never seen the godly abandoned,
> Or their children forced to search for food.
###### 26
> All day long they show compassion and lend to others,
> And their children are blessed.
###### ¶ 27
> Turn away from evil. Do what is right.
> Then you will enjoy lasting security.
###### 28
> For the LORD promotes justice,
> And never abandons his faithful followers.
> They are permanently secure,
> But the children of the wicked are wiped out.
###### 29
> The godly will possess the land
> And will dwell in it permanently.
###### 30
> The godly speak wise words
> And promote justice.
###### 31
> The law of their God controls their thinking;
> Their feet do not slip.
###### 32
> The wicked set an ambush for the godly
> And try to kill them.
###### 33
> But the LORD does not surrender the godly,
> Or allow them to be condemned in a court of law.
###### 34
> Rely on the LORD. Obey his commands.
> Then he will permit you to possess the land;
> You will see the demise of the wicked.
###### ¶ 35
> I have seen ruthless, wicked people
> Growing in influence, like a green tree grows in its native soil.
###### 36
> But then one passes by, and suddenly they have disappeared.
> I looked for them, but they could not be found.
###### 37
> Take note of the one who has integrity. Observe the upright.
> For the one who promotes peace has a future.
###### 38
> Sinful rebels are totally destroyed;
> The wicked have no future.
###### 39
> But the LORD delivers the godly;
> He protects them in times of trouble.
###### 40
> The LORD helps them and rescues them;
> He rescues them from the wicked and delivers them,
> For they seek his protection.
