# Psalm 38
###### ¶ 1
> O LORD, do not continue to rebuke me in your anger.
> Do not continue to punish me in your raging fury.
###### 2
> For your arrows pierce me,
> And your hand presses me down.
###### 3
> My whole body is sick because of your judgment;
> I am deprived of health because of my sin.
###### 4
> For my sins overwhelm me;
> Like a heavy load, they are too much for me to bear.
###### 5
> My wounds are infected and starting to smell,
> Because of my foolish sins.
###### 6
> I am dazed and completely humiliated;
> All day long I walk around mourning.
###### 7
> For I am overcome with shame,
> And my whole body is sick.
###### 8
> I am numb with pain and severely battered;
> I groan loudly because of the anxiety I feel.
###### ¶ 9
> O Lord, you understand my heart’s desire;
> My groaning is not hidden from you.
###### 10
> My heart beats quickly;
> My strength leaves me.
> I can hardly see.
###### 11
> Because of my condition, even my friends and acquaintances keep their distance;
> My neighbors stand far away.
###### 12
> Those who seek my life try to entrap me;
> Those who want to harm me speak destructive words.
> All day long they say deceitful things.
###### ¶ 13
> But I am like a deaf man—I hear nothing;
> I am like a mute who cannot speak.
###### 14
> I am like a man who cannot hear
> And is incapable of arguing his defense.
###### 15
> Yet I wait for you, O LORD!
> You will respond, O Lord, my God!
###### 16
> I have prayed for deliverance, because otherwise they will gloat over me;
> When my foot slips they will arrogantly taunt me.
###### 17
> For I am about to stumble,
> And I am in constant pain.
###### 18
> Yes, I confess my wrongdoing,
> And I am concerned about my sins.
###### 19
> But those who are my enemies for no reason are numerous;
> Those who hate me without cause outnumber me.
###### 20
> They repay me evil for the good I have done;
> Though I have tried to do good to them, they hurl accusations at me.
###### 21
> Do not abandon me, O LORD.
> My God, do not remain far away from me.
###### 22
> Hurry and help me, O Lord, my deliverer.
