# Psalm 39
###### ¶ 1
> I decided, “I will watch what I say
>  “ And make sure I do not sin with my tongue.
>  “ I will put a muzzle over my mouth
>  “ While in the presence of an evil person.”
###### 2
> I was stone silent;
> I held back the urge to speak.
> My frustration grew;
###### 3
> My anxiety intensified.
> As I thought about it, I became impatient.
> Finally I spoke these words:
###### 4
>  “ O LORD, help me understand my mortality
>  “ And the brevity of life.
>  “ Let me realize how quickly my life will pass.
###### 5
>  “ Look, you make my days short-lived,
>  “ And my life span is nothing from your perspective.
>  “ Surely all people, even those who seem secure, are nothing but vapor. (Selah)
###### 6
>  “ Surely people go through life as mere ghosts.
>  “ Surely they accumulate worthless wealth
>  “ Without knowing who will eventually haul it away.”
###### ¶ 7
> But now, O Lord, upon what am I relying?
> You are my only hope!
###### 8
> Deliver me from all my sins of rebellion.
> Do not make me the object of fools’ insults.
###### 9
> I am silent and cannot open my mouth
> Because of what you have done.
###### 10
> Please stop wounding me.
> You have almost beaten me to death.
###### 11
> You severely discipline people for their sins;
> Like a moth you slowly devour their strength.
> Surely all people are a mere vapor. (Selah)
###### ¶ 12
> Hear my prayer, O LORD.
> Listen to my cry for help.
> Do not ignore my sobbing.
> For I am a resident foreigner with you,
> A temporary settler, just as all my ancestors were.
###### 13
> Turn your angry gaze away from me, so I can be happy
> Before I pass away.
