# Psalm 44
###### ¶ 1
> O God, we have clearly heard;
> Our ancestors have told us
> What you did in their days,
> In ancient times.
###### 2
> You, by your power, defeated nations and settled our fathers on their land;
> You crushed the people living there and enabled our ancestors to occupy it.
###### 3
> For they did not conquer the land by their swords,
> And they did not prevail by their strength,
> But rather by your power, strength, and good favor,
> For you were partial to them.
###### ¶ 4
> You are my king, O God.
> Decree Jacob’s deliverance.
###### 5
> By your power we will drive back our enemies;
> By your strength we will trample down our foes.
###### 6
> For I do not trust in my bow,
> And I do not prevail by my sword.
###### 7
> For you deliver us from our enemies;
> You humiliate those who hate us.
###### 8
> In God we boast all day long,
> And we will continually give thanks to your name. (Selah)
###### ¶ 9
> But you rejected and embarrassed us.
> You did not go into battle with our armies.
###### 10
> You made us retreat from the enemy.
> Those who hate us take whatever they want from us.
###### 11
> You handed us over like sheep to be eaten;
> You scattered us among the nations.
###### 12
> You sold your people for a pittance;
> You did not ask a high price for them.
###### 13
> You made us an object of disdain to our neighbors;
> Those who live on our borders taunt and insult us.
###### 14
> You made us an object of ridicule among the nations;
> Foreigners treat us with contempt.
###### 15
> All day long I feel humiliated
> And am overwhelmed with shame,
###### 16
> Before the vindictive enemy
> Who ridicules and insults me.
###### ¶ 17
> All this has happened to us, even though we have not rejected you
> Or violated your covenant with us.
###### 18
> We have not been unfaithful,
> Nor have we disobeyed your commands.
###### 19
> Yet you have battered us, leaving us a heap of ruins overrun by wild dogs;
> You have covered us with darkness.
###### ¶ 20
> If we had rejected our God,
> And spread out our hands in prayer to another god,
###### 21
> Would not God discover it,
> For he knows a person’s secret thoughts?
###### 22
> Yet because of you we are killed all day long;
> We are treated like sheep at the slaughtering block.
###### 23
> Rouse yourself! Why do you sleep, O Lord?
> Wake up! Do not reject us forever.
###### 24
> Why do you look the other way,
> And ignore the way we are oppressed and mistreated?
###### 25
> For we lie in the dirt,
> With our bellies pressed to the ground.
###### 26
> Rise up and help us.
> Rescue us because of your loyal love.
