# Psalm 49
###### ¶ 1
> Listen to this, all you nations.
> Pay attention, all you inhabitants of the world.
###### 2
> Pay attention, all you people,
> Both rich and poor.
###### 3
> I will declare a wise saying;
> I will share my profound thoughts.
###### 4
> I will learn a song that imparts wisdom;
> I will then sing my insightful song to the accompaniment of a harp.
###### ¶ 5
> Why should I be afraid in times of trouble,
> When the sinful deeds of deceptive men threaten to overwhelm me?
###### 6
> They trust in their wealth
> And boast in their great riches.
###### 7
> Certainly a man cannot rescue his brother;
> He cannot pay God an adequate ransom price
###### 8
> The ransom price for a human life is too high,
> And people go to their final destiny,
###### 9
> So that he might continue to live forever
> And not experience death.
###### ¶ 10
> Surely one sees that even wise people die;
> Fools and spiritually insensitive people all pass away
> And leave their wealth to others.
###### 11
> Their grave becomes their permanent residence,
> Their eternal dwelling place.
> They name their lands after themselves,
###### 12
> But, despite their wealth, people do not last.
> They are like animals that perish.
###### ¶ 13
> This is the destiny of fools,
> And of those who approve of their philosophy. (Selah)
###### 14
> They will travel to Sheol like sheep,
> With death as their shepherd.
> The godly will rule over them when the day of vindication dawns.
> Sheol will consume their bodies, and they will no longer live in impressive houses.
###### 15
> But God will rescue my life from the power of Sheol;
> Certainly he will pull me to safety. (Selah)
###### ¶ 16
> Do not be afraid when a man becomes rich
> And his wealth multiplies.
###### 17
> For he will take nothing with him when he dies;
> His wealth will not follow him down into the grave.
###### 18
> He pronounces this blessing on himself while he is alive:
> “May men praise you, for you have done well.”
###### 19
> But he will join his ancestors;
> They will never again see the light of day.
###### 20
> Wealthy people do not understand;
> They are like animals that perish.
