# Psalm 50
###### ¶ 1
> El, God, the LORD has spoken,
> And summoned the earth to come from the east and west.
###### 2
> From Zion, the most beautiful of all places,
> God has come in splendor.
###### 3
>  “ May our God come
>  “ And not be silent.”
> Consuming fire goes ahead of him,
> And all around him a storm rages.
###### 4
> He summons the heavens above,
> As well as the earth, so that he might judge his people.
###### 5
> He says:
>  “ Assemble my covenant people before me,
>  “ Those who ratified a covenant with me by sacrifice.”
###### 6
> The heavens declare his fairness,
> For God is judge. (Selah)
###### ¶ 7
> He says:
>  “ Listen, my people. I am speaking!
>  “ Listen, Israel. I am accusing you.
>  “ I am God, your God!
###### 8
>  “ I am not condemning you because of your sacrifices,
>  “ Or because of your burnt sacrifices that you continually offer me.
###### 9
>  “ I do not need to take a bull from your household
>  “ Or goats from your sheepfolds.
###### 10
>  “ For every wild animal in the forest belongs to me,
>  “ As well as the cattle that graze on a thousand hills.
###### 11
>  “ I keep track of every bird in the hills,
>  “ And the insects of the field are mine.
###### 12
>  “ Even if I were hungry, I would not tell you,
>  “ For the world and all it contains belong to me.
###### 13
>  “ Do I eat the flesh of bulls?
>  “ Do I drink the blood of goats?
###### 14
>  “ Present to God a thank offering.
>  “ Repay your vows to the Most High.
###### 15
>  “ Pray to me when you are in trouble.
>  “ I will deliver you, and you will honor me.”
###### ¶ 16
> God says this to the evildoer:
>  “ How can you declare my commands,
>  “ And talk about my covenant?
###### 17
>  “ For you hate instruction
>  “ And reject my words.
###### 18
>  “ When you see a thief, you join him;
>  “ You associate with men who are unfaithful to their wives.
###### 19
>  “ You do damage with words,
>  “ And use your tongue to deceive.
###### 20
>  “ You plot against your brother;
>  “ You slander your own brother.
###### 21
>  “ When you did these things, I was silent,
>  “ So you thought I was exactly like you.
>  “ But now I will condemn you
>  “ And state my case against you.
###### ¶ 22
>  “ Carefully consider this, you who reject God.
>  “ Otherwise I will rip you to shreds
>  “ And no one will be able to rescue you.
###### 23
>  “ Whoever presents a thank offering honors me.
>  “ To whoever obeys my commands, I will reveal my power to deliver.”
