# Psalm 51
###### ¶ 1
> Have mercy on me, O God, because of your loyal love.
> Because of your great compassion, wipe away my rebellious acts.
###### 2
> Wash away my wrongdoing.
> Cleanse me of my sin.
###### 3
> For I am aware of my rebellious acts;
> I am forever conscious of my sin.
###### 4
> Against you—you above all—I have sinned;
> I have done what is evil in your sight.
> So you are just when you confront me;
> You are right when you condemn me.
###### ¶ 5
> Look, I was guilty of sin from birth,
> A sinner the moment my mother conceived me.
###### 6
> Look, you desire integrity in the inner man;
> You want me to possess wisdom.
###### 7
> Cleanse me with hyssop and I will be pure;
> Wash me and I will be whiter than snow.
###### 8
> Grant me the ultimate joy of being forgiven.
> May the bones you crushed rejoice.
###### 9
> Hide your face from my sins.
> Wipe away all my guilt.
###### ¶ 10
> Create for me a pure heart, O God.
> Renew a resolute spirit within me.
###### 11
> Do not reject me.
> Do not take your holy Spirit away from me.
###### 12
> Let me again experience the joy of your deliverance.
> Sustain me by giving me the desire to obey.
###### 13
> Then I will teach rebels your merciful ways,
> And sinners will turn to you.
###### ¶ 14
> Rescue me from the guilt of murder, O God, the God who delivers me.
> Then my tongue will shout for joy because of your righteousness.
###### 15
> O Lord, give me the words.
> Then my mouth will praise you.
###### 16
> Certainly you do not want a sacrifice, or else I would offer it;
> You do not desire a burnt sacrifice.
###### 17
> The sacrifice God desires is a humble spirit—
> O God, a humble and repentant heart you will not reject.
###### ¶ 18
> Because you favor Zion, do what is good for her.
> Fortify the walls of Jerusalem.
###### 19
> Then you will accept the proper sacrifices, burnt sacrifices and whole offerings;
> Then bulls will be sacrificed on your altar.
