# Psalm 55
###### ¶ 1
> Listen, O God, to my prayer.
> Do not ignore my appeal for mercy.
###### 2
> Pay attention to me and answer me.
> I am so upset and distressed, I am beside myself,
###### 3
> Because of what the enemy says,
> And because of how the wicked pressure me,
> For they hurl trouble down upon me
> And angrily attack me.
###### ¶ 4
> My heart beats violently within me;
> The horrors of death overcome me.
###### 5
> Fear and panic overpower me;
> Terror overwhelms me.
###### 6
> I say, “I wish I had wings like a dove.
>  “ I would fly away and settle in a safe place.
###### 7
>  “ Look, I will escape to a distant place;
>  “ I will stay in the wilderness. (Selah)
###### 8
>  “ I will hurry off to a place that is safe
>  “ From the strong wind and the gale.”
###### ¶ 9
> Confuse them, O Lord.
> Frustrate their plans.
> For I see violence and conflict in the city.
###### 10
> Day and night they walk around on its walls,
> While wickedness and destruction are within it.
###### 11
> Disaster is within it;
> Violence and deceit do not depart from its public square.
###### ¶ 12
> Indeed, it is not an enemy who insults me,
> Or else I could bear it;
> It is not one who hates me who arrogantly taunts me,
> Or else I could hide from him.
###### 13
> But it is you, a man like me,
> My close friend in whom I confided.
###### 14
> We would share personal thoughts with each other;
> In God’s temple we would walk together among the crowd.
###### 15
> May death destroy them.
> May they go down alive into Sheol.
> For evil is in their dwelling place and in their midst.
###### ¶ 16
> As for me, I will call out to God,
> And the LORD will deliver me.
###### 17
> During the evening, morning, and noontime
> I will lament and moan,
> And he will hear me.
###### 18
> He will rescue me and protect me from those who attack me,
> Even though they greatly outnumber me.
###### 19
> God, the one who has reigned as king from long ago,
> Will hear and humiliate them. (Selah)
> They refuse to change,
> And do not fear God.
###### 20
> He attacks his friends;
> He breaks his solemn promises to them.
###### 21
> His words are as smooth as butter,
> But he harbors animosity in his heart.
> His words seem softer than oil,
> But they are really like sharp swords.
###### ¶ 22
> Throw your burden upon the LORD,
> And he will sustain you.
> He will never allow the godly to be shaken.
###### 23
> But you, O God, will bring them down to the deep Pit.
> Violent and deceitful people will not live even half a normal lifespan.
> But as for me, I trust in you.
