# Psalm 59
###### ¶ 1
> Deliver me from my enemies, my God.
> Protect me from those who attack me.
###### 2
> Deliver me from evildoers.
> Rescue me from violent men.
###### 3
> For look, they wait to ambush me;
> Powerful men stalk me,
> But not because I have rebelled or sinned, O LORD.
###### 4
> Though I have done nothing wrong, they are anxious to attack.
> Spring into action and help me. Take notice of me.
###### 5
> You, O LORD God of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel,
> Rouse yourself and punish all the nations.
> Have no mercy on any treacherous evildoers. (Selah)
###### 6
> They return in the evening;
> They growl like dogs
> And prowl around outside the city.
###### 7
> Look, they hurl insults at me
> And openly threaten to kill me,
> For they say,
>  “ Who hears?”
###### 8
> But you, O LORD, laugh in disgust at them;
> You taunt all the nations.
###### ¶ 9
> You are my source of strength. I will wait for you.
> For God is my refuge.
###### 10
> The God who loves me will help me;
> God will enable me to triumph over my enemies.
###### 11
> Do not strike them dead suddenly,
> Because then my people might forget the lesson.
> Use your power to make them homeless vagabonds and then bring them down,
> O Lord who shields us.
###### 12
> They speak sinful words.
> So let them be trapped by their own pride
> And by the curses and lies they speak.
###### 13
> Angrily wipe them out. Wipe them out so they vanish.
> Let them know that God rules
> Over Jacob and to the ends of the earth. (Selah)
###### 14
> They return in the evening;
> They growl like dogs
> And prowl around outside the city.
###### 15
> They wander around looking for something to eat;
> They refuse to sleep until they are full.
###### ¶ 16
> As for me, I will sing about your strength;
> I will praise your loyal love in the morning.
> For you are my refuge
> And my place of shelter when I face trouble.
###### 17
> You are my source of strength. I will sing praises to you.
> For God is my refuge, the God who loves me.
