# Psalm 66
###### ¶ 1
> Shout out praise to God, all the earth!
###### 2
> Sing praises about the majesty of his reputation.
> Give him the honor he deserves!
###### 3
> Say to God:
> “How awesome are your deeds!
> “Because of your great power your enemies cower in fear before you.
###### 4
> “All the earth worships you
> “And sings praises to you.
> “They sing praises to your name.” (Selah)
###### ¶ 5
> Come and witness God’s exploits!
> His acts on behalf of people are awesome.
###### 6
> He turned the sea into dry land;
> They passed through the river on foot.
> Let us rejoice in him there.
###### 7
> He rules by his power forever;
> He watches the nations.
> Stubborn rebels should not exalt themselves. (Selah)
###### ¶ 8
> Praise our God, you nations.
> Loudly proclaim his praise.
###### 9
> He preserves our lives
> And does not allow our feet to slip.
###### 10
> For you, O God, tested us;
> You purified us like refined silver.
###### 11
> You led us into a trap;
> You caused us to suffer.
###### 12
> You allowed men to ride over our heads;
> We passed through fire and water,
> But you brought us out into a wide open place.
###### 13
> I will enter your temple with burnt sacrifices;
> I will fulfill the vows I made to you,
###### 14
> Which my lips uttered
> And my mouth spoke when I was in trouble.
###### 15
> I will offer up to you fattened animals as burnt sacrifices,
> Along with the smell of sacrificial rams.
> I will offer cattle and goats. (Selah)
###### ¶ 16
> Come! Listen, all you who are loyal to God.
> I will declare what he has done for me.
###### 17
> I cried out to him for help
> And praised him with my tongue.
###### 18
> If I had harbored sin in my heart,
> The Lord would not have listened.
###### 19
> However, God heard;
> He listened to my prayer.
###### 20
> God deserves praise,
> For he did not reject my prayer
> Or abandon his love for me.
