# Psalm 68
###### ¶ 1
> God springs into action.
> His enemies scatter;
> His adversaries run from him.
###### 2
> As smoke is driven away by the wind, so you drive them away.
> As wax melts before fire,
> So the wicked are destroyed before God.
###### 3
> But the godly are happy;
> They rejoice before God
> And are overcome with joy.
###### 4
> Sing to God! Sing praises to his name.
> Exalt the one who rides on the clouds.
> For the LORD is his name.
> Rejoice before him.
###### ¶ 5
> He is a father to the fatherless
> And an advocate for widows.
> God rules from his holy dwelling place.
###### 6
> God settles in their own homes those who have been deserted;
> He frees prisoners and grants them prosperity.
> But sinful rebels live in the desert.
###### ¶ 7
> O God, when you lead your people into battle,
> When you march through the wastelands, (Selah)
###### 8
> The earth shakes.
> Yes, the heavens pour down rain
> Before God, the God of Sinai,
> Before God, the God of Israel.
###### 9
> O God, you cause abundant showers to fall on your chosen people.
> When they are tired, you sustain them,
###### 10
> For you live among them.
> You sustain the oppressed with your good blessings, O God.
###### ¶ 11
> The Lord speaks;
> Many, many women spread the good news.
###### 12
> Kings leading armies run away—they run away!
> The lovely lady of the house divides up the loot.
###### 13
> When you lie down among the sheepfolds,
> The wings of the dove are covered with silver
> And with glittering gold.
###### 14
> When the Sovereign One scatters kings,
> Let it snow on Zalmon.
###### ¶ 15
> The mountain of Bashan is a towering mountain;
> The mountain of Bashan is a mountain with many peaks.
###### 16
> Why do you look with envy, O mountains with many peaks,
> At the mountain where God has decided to live?
> Indeed the LORD will live there permanently.
###### 17
> God has countless chariots;
> They number in the thousands.
> The Lord comes from Sinai in holy splendor.
###### 18
> You ascend on high;
> You have taken many captives.
> You receive tribute from men,
> Including even sinful rebels.
> Indeed, the LORD God lives there.
###### ¶ 19
> The Lord deserves praise.
> Day after day he carries our burden,
> The God who delivers us. (Selah)
###### 20
> Our God is a God who delivers;
> The LORD, the Sovereign Lord, can rescue from death.
###### 21
> Indeed, God strikes the heads of his enemies,
> The hairy foreheads of those who persist in rebellion.
###### 22
> The Lord says,
>  “ I will retrieve them from Bashan.
>  “ I will bring them back from the depths of the sea,
###### 23
>  “ So that your feet may stomp in their blood,
>  “ And your dogs may eat their portion of the enemies’ corpses.”
###### ¶ 24
> They see your processions, O God—
> The processions of my God, my king, who marches along in holy splendor.
###### 25
> Singers walk in front;
> Musicians follow playing their stringed instruments,
> In the midst of young women playing tambourines.
###### 26
> In your large assemblies praise God,
> The LORD, in the assemblies of Israel.
###### 27
> There is little Benjamin, their ruler,
> And the princes of Judah in their robes,
> Along with the princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali.
###### ¶ 28
> God has decreed that you will be powerful.
> O God, you who have acted on our behalf, demonstrate your power.
###### 29
> Because of your temple in Jerusalem,
> Kings bring tribute to you.
###### 30
> Sound your battle cry against the wild beast of the reeds,
> And the nations that assemble like a herd of calves led by bulls.
> They humble themselves and offer gold and silver as tribute.
> God scatters the nations that like to do battle.
###### 31
> They come with red cloth from Egypt.
> Ethiopia voluntarily offers tribute to God.
###### ¶ 32
> O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God.
> Sing praises to the Lord, (Selah)
###### 33
> To the one who rides through the sky from ancient times.
> Look! He thunders loudly.
###### 34
> Acknowledge God’s power,
> His sovereignty over Israel,
> And the power he reveals in the skies.
###### 35
> You are awe-inspiring, O God, as you emerge from your holy temple.
> It is the God of Israel who gives the people power and strength.
> God deserves praise!
