# Psalm 69
###### ¶ 1
> Deliver me, O God,
> For the water has reached my neck.
###### 2
> I sink into the deep mire
> Where there is no solid ground;
> I am in deep water,
> And the current overpowers me.
###### 3
> I am exhausted from shouting for help.
> My throat is sore;
> My eyes grow tired from looking for my God.
###### 4
> Those who hate me without cause
> Are more numerous than the hairs of my head.
> Those who want to destroy me,
> My enemies for no reason,
> Outnumber me.
> They make me repay what I did not steal.
###### ¶ 5
> O God, you are aware of my foolish sins;
> My guilt is not hidden from you.
###### 6
> Let none who rely on you be disgraced because of me,
> O Sovereign LORD of Heaven’s Armies.
> Let none who seek you be ashamed because of me,
> O God of Israel.
###### 7
> For I suffer humiliation for your sake
> And am thoroughly disgraced.
###### 8
> My own brothers treat me like a stranger;
> They act as if I were a foreigner.
###### 9
> Certainly zeal for your house consumes me;
> I endure the insults of those who insult you.
###### 10
> I weep and refrain from eating food,
> Which causes others to insult me.
###### 11
> I wear sackcloth
> And they ridicule me.
###### 12
> Those who sit at the city gate gossip about me;
> Drunkards mock me in their songs.
###### ¶ 13
> O LORD, may you hear my prayer and be favorably disposed to me.
> O God, because of your great loyal love,
> Answer me with your faithful deliverance.
###### 14
> Rescue me from the mud. Don’t let me sink.
>  “ Deliver me from those who hate me,
>  “ From the deep water.
###### 15
>  “ Don’t let the current overpower me.
>  “ Don’t let the deep swallow me up.
>  “ Don’t let the Pit devour me.
###### ¶ 16
>  “ Answer me, O LORD, for your loyal love is good.
>  “ Because of your great compassion, turn toward me.
###### 17
>  “ Do not ignore your servant,
>  “ For I am in trouble. Answer me right away.
###### 18
>  “ Come near me and redeem me.
>  “ Because of my enemies, rescue me.
###### 19
>  “ You know how I am insulted, humiliated, and disgraced;
>  “ You can see all my enemies.
###### ¶ 20
>  “ Their insults are painful and make me lose heart;
>  “ I look for sympathy, but receive none,
>  “ For comforters, but find none.
###### 21
>  “ They put bitter poison into my food,
>  “ And to quench my thirst they give me vinegar to drink.
###### ¶ 22
>  “ May their dining table become a trap before them.
>  “ May it be a snare for that group of friends.
###### 23
>  “ May their eyes be blinded.
>  “ Make them shake violently.
###### 24
>  “ Pour out your judgment on them.
>  “ May your raging anger overtake them.
###### 25
>  “ May their camp become desolate,
>  “ Their tents uninhabited.
###### 26
>  “ For they harass the one whom you discipline;
>  “ They spread the news about the suffering of those whom you punish.
###### 27
>  “ Hold them accountable for all their sins.
>  “ Do not vindicate them.
###### 28
>  “ May their names be deleted from the scroll of the living.
>  “ Do not let their names be listed with the godly.
###### ¶ 29
>  “ I am oppressed and suffering.
>  “ O God, deliver and protect me.
###### 30
>  “ I will sing praises to God’s name.
>  “ I will magnify him as I give him thanks.
###### 31
>  “ That will please the LORD more than an ox or a bull
>  “ With horns and hooves.
###### 32
>  “ The oppressed look on—let them rejoice.
>  “ You who seek God, may you be encouraged.
###### 33
>  “ For the LORD listens to the needy;
>  “ He does not despise his captive people.
###### ¶ 34
>  “ Let the heavens and the earth praise him,
>  “ Along with the seas and everything that swims in them.
###### 35
>  “ For God will deliver Zion
>  “ And rebuild the cities of Judah,
>  “ And his people will again live in them and possess Zion.
###### 36
>  “ The descendants of his servants will inherit it,
>  “ And those who are loyal to him will live in it.
