# Psalm 71
###### ¶ 1
> In you, O LORD, I have taken shelter.
> Never let me be humiliated.
###### 2
> Vindicate me by rescuing me.
> Listen to me. Deliver me.
###### 3
> Be my protector and refuge,
> A stronghold where I can be safe.
> For you are my high ridge and my stronghold.
###### 4
> My God, rescue me from the power of the wicked,
> From the hand of the cruel oppressor.
###### 5
> For you are my hope;
> O Sovereign LORD, I have trusted in you since I was young.
###### 6
> I have leaned on you since birth;
> You pulled me from my mother’s womb.
> I praise you continually.
###### ¶ 7
> Many are appalled when they see me,
> But you are my secure shelter.
###### 8
> I praise you constantly
> And speak of your splendor all day long.
###### 9
> Do not reject me in my old age.
> When my strength fails, do not abandon me.
###### 10
> For my enemies talk about me;
> Those waiting for a chance to kill me plot my demise.
###### 11
> They say, “God has abandoned him.
> “Run and seize him, for there is no one who will rescue him.”
###### ¶ 12
> O God, do not remain far away from me.
> My God, hurry and help me.
###### 13
> May my accusers be humiliated and defeated.
> May those who want to harm me be covered with scorn and disgrace.
###### 14
> As for me, I will wait continually,
> And will continue to praise you.
###### 15
> I will tell about your justice,
> And all day long proclaim your salvation,
> Though I cannot fathom its full extent.
###### 16
> I will come and tell about the mighty acts of the Sovereign LORD.
> I will proclaim your justice—yours alone.
###### ¶ 17
> O God, you have taught me since I was young,
> And I am still declaring your amazing deeds.
###### 18
> Even when I am old and gray,
> O God, do not abandon me,
> Until I tell the next generation about your strength,
> And those coming after me about your power.
###### 19
> Your justice, O God, extends to the skies above;
> You have done great things.
> O God, who can compare to you?
###### 20
> Though you have allowed me to experience much trouble and distress,
> Revive me once again.
> Bring me up once again from the depths of the earth.
###### 21
> Raise me to a position of great honor.
> Turn and comfort me.
###### ¶ 22
> I will express my thanks to you with a stringed instrument,
> Praising your faithfulness, O my God.
> I will sing praises to you accompanied by a harp,
> O Holy One of Israel.
###### 23
> My lips will shout for joy. Yes, I will sing your praises.
> I will praise you when you rescue me.
###### 24
> All day long my tongue will also tell about your justice,
> For those who want to harm me will be embarrassed and ashamed.
