# Psalm 72
###### ¶ 1
> O God, grant the king the ability to make just decisions.
> Grant the king’s son the ability to make fair decisions.
###### 2
> Then he will judge your people fairly,
> And your oppressed ones equitably.
###### 3
> The mountains will bring news of peace to the people,
> And the hills will announce justice.
###### 4
> He will defend the oppressed among the people;
> He will deliver the children of the poor
> And crush the oppressor.
###### ¶ 5
> People will fear you as long as the sun and moon remain in the sky,
> For generation after generation.
###### 6
> He will descend like rain on the mown grass,
> Like showers that drench the earth.
###### 7
> During his days the godly will flourish;
> Peace will prevail as long as the moon remains in the sky.
###### ¶ 8
> May he rule from sea to sea,
> And from the Euphrates River to the ends of the earth.
###### 9
> Before him the coastlands will bow down,
> And his enemies will lick the dust.
###### 10
> The kings of Tarshish and the coastlands will offer gifts;
> The kings of Sheba and Seba will bring tribute.
###### 11
> All kings will bow down to him;
> All nations will serve him.
###### ¶ 12
> For he will rescue the needy when they cry out for help,
> And the oppressed who have no defender.
###### 13
> He will take pity on the poor and needy;
> The lives of the needy he will save.
###### 14
> From harm and violence he will defend them;
> He will value their lives.
###### 15
> May he live! May they offer him gold from Sheba.
> May they continually pray for him.
> May they pronounce blessings on him all day long.
###### ¶ 16
> May there be an abundance of grain in the earth;
> On the tops of the mountains may it sway.
> May its fruit trees flourish like the forests of Lebanon.
> May its crops be as abundant as the grass of the earth.
###### 17
> May his fame endure.
> May his dynasty last as long as the sun remains in the sky.
> May they use his name when they formulate their blessings.
> May all nations consider him to be favored by God.
###### ¶ 18
> The LORD God, the God of Israel, deserves praise.
> He alone accomplishes amazing things.
###### 19
> His glorious name deserves praise forevermore.
> May his majestic splendor fill the whole earth.
> We agree! We agree!
###### ¶ 20
> This collection of the prayers of David son of Jesse ends here.
