# Psalm 73
## Book 3 (Psalms 73-89)
###### ¶ 1
> Certainly God is good to Israel,
> And to those whose motives are pure.
###### 2
> But as for me, my feet almost slipped;
> My feet almost slid out from under me.
###### 3
> For I envied those who are proud,
> As I observed the prosperity of the wicked.
###### 4
> For they suffer no pain;
> Their bodies are strong and well fed.
###### 5
> They are immune to the trouble common to men;
> They do not suffer as other men do.
###### 6
> Arrogance is their necklace,
> And violence covers them like clothing.
###### 7
> Their prosperity causes them to do wrong;
> Their thoughts are sinful.
###### 8
> They mock and say evil things;
> They proudly threaten violence.
###### 9
> They speak as if they rule in heaven,
> And lay claim to the earth.
###### ¶ 10
> Therefore they have more than enough food to eat,
> And even suck up the water of the sea.
###### 11
> They say, “How does God know what we do?
>  “ Is the Most High aware of what goes on?”
###### 12
> Take a good look. This is what the wicked are like,
> Those who always have it so easy and get richer and richer.
###### 13
> I concluded, “Surely in vain I have kept my motives pure
>  “ And maintained a pure lifestyle.
###### 14
>  “ I suffer all day long,
>  “ And am punished every morning.”
###### ¶ 15
> If I had publicized these thoughts,
> I would have betrayed your people.
###### 16
> When I tried to make sense of this,
> It was troubling to me.
###### 17
> Then I entered the precincts of God’s temple,
> And understood the destiny of the wicked.
###### 18
> Surely you put them in slippery places;
> You bring them down to ruin.
###### 19
> How desolate they become in a mere moment.
> Terrifying judgments make their demise complete.
###### 20
> They are like a dream after one wakes up.
> O Lord, when you awake you will despise them.
###### ¶ 21
> Yes, my spirit was bitter,
> And my insides felt sharp pain.
###### 22
> I was ignorant and lacked insight;
> I was as senseless as an animal before you.
###### 23
> But I am continually with you;
> You hold my right hand.
###### 24
> You guide me by your wise advice,
> And then you will lead me to a position of honor.
###### ¶ 25
> Whom do I have in heaven but you?
> On earth there is no one I desire but you.
###### 26
> My flesh and my heart may grow weak,
> But God always protects my heart and gives me stability.
###### 27
> Yes, look! Those far from you die;
> You destroy everyone who is unfaithful to you.
###### 28
> But as for me, God’s presence is all I need.
> I have made the Sovereign LORD my shelter,
> As I declare all the things you have done.
