# Psalm 74
###### ¶ 1
> Why, O God, have you permanently rejected us?
> Why does your anger burn against the sheep of your pasture?
###### 2
> Remember your people whom you acquired in ancient times,
> Whom you rescued so they could be your very own nation,
> As well as Mount Zion, where you dwell.
###### 3
> Hurry to the permanent ruins,
> And to all the damage the enemy has done to the temple.
###### 4
> Your enemies roar in the middle of your sanctuary;
> They set up their battle flags.
###### 5
> They invade like lumberjacks
> Swinging their axes in a thick forest.
###### 6
> And now they are tearing down all its engravings
> With axes and crowbars.
###### 7
> They set your sanctuary on fire;
> They desecrate your dwelling place by knocking it to the ground.
###### 8
> They say to themselves,
> “We will oppress all of them.”
> They burn down all the places in the land where people worship God.
###### 9
> We do not see any signs of God’s presence;
> There are no longer any prophets,
> And we have no one to tell us how long this will last.
###### 10
> How long, O God, will the adversary hurl insults?
> Will the enemy blaspheme your name forever?
###### 11
> Why do you remain inactive?
> Intervene and destroy him.
###### ¶ 12
> But God has been my king from ancient times,
> Performing acts of deliverance on the earth.
###### 13
> You destroyed the sea by your strength;
> You shattered the heads of the sea monster in the water.
###### 14
> You crushed the heads of Leviathan;
> You fed him to the people who live along the coast.
###### 15
> You broke open the spring and the stream;
> You dried up perpetually flowing rivers.
###### 16
> You established the cycle of day and night;
> You put the moon and sun in place.
###### 17
> You set up all the boundaries of the earth;
> You created the cycle of summer and winter.
###### ¶ 18
> Remember how the enemy hurls insults, O LORD,
> And how a foolish nation blasphemes your name.
###### 19
> Do not hand the life of your dove over to a wild animal.
> Do not continue to disregard the lives of your oppressed people.
###### 20
> Remember your covenant promises,
> For the dark regions of the earth are full of places where violence rules.
###### 21
> Do not let the afflicted be turned back in shame.
> Let the oppressed and poor praise your name.
###### ¶ 22
> Rise up, O God. Defend your honor.
> Remember how fools insult you all day long.
###### 23
> Do not disregard what your enemies say,
> Or the unceasing shouts of those who defy you.
