# Psalm 77
###### ¶ 1
> I will cry out to God and call for help.
> I will cry out to God and he will pay attention to me.
###### 2
> In my time of trouble I sought the Lord.
> I kept my hand raised in prayer throughout the night.
> I refused to be comforted.
###### 3
> I said, “I will remember God while I groan;
> “I will think about him while my strength leaves me.” (Selah)
###### 4
> You held my eyelids open;
> I was troubled and could not speak.
###### 5
> I thought about the days of old,
> About ancient times.
###### 6
> I said, “During the night I will remember the song I once sang;
> “I will think very carefully.”
> I tried to make sense of what was happening.
###### ¶ 7
> I asked, “Will the Lord reject me forever?
> “Will he never again show me his favor?
###### 8
> “Has his loyal love disappeared forever?
> “Has his promise failed forever?
###### 9
> “Has God forgotten to be merciful?
> “Has his anger stifled his compassion?” (Selah)
###### 10
> Then I said, “I am sickened by the thought
> “That the Most High might become inactive.
###### ¶ 11
> “I will remember the works of the LORD.
> “Yes, I will remember the amazing things you did long ago.
###### 12
> “I will think about all you have done;
> “I will reflect upon your deeds.”
###### 13
> O God, your deeds are extraordinary.
> What god can compare to our great God?
###### 14
> You are the God who does amazing things;
> You have revealed your strength among the nations.
###### 15
> You delivered your people by your strength—
> The children of Jacob and Joseph. (Selah)
###### ¶ 16
> The waters saw you, O God,
> The waters saw you and trembled.
> Yes, the depths of the sea shook with fear.
###### 17
> The clouds poured down rain;
> The skies thundered.
> Yes, your arrows flashed about.
###### 18
> Your thunderous voice was heard in the wind;
> The lightning bolts lit up the world.
> The earth trembled and shook.
###### 19
> You walked through the sea;
> You passed through the surging waters,
> But left no footprints.
###### 20
> You led your people like a flock of sheep,
> By the hand of Moses and Aaron.
