# Psalm 78
###### ¶ 1
> Pay attention, my people, to my instruction.
> Listen to the words I speak.
###### 2
> I will sing a song that imparts wisdom;
> I will make insightful observations about the past.
###### 3
> What we have heard and learned—
> That which our ancestors have told us—
###### 4
> We will not hide from their descendants.
> We will tell the next generation
> About the LORD’s praiseworthy acts,
> About his strength and the amazing things he has done.
###### ¶ 5
> He established a rule in Jacob;
> He set up a law in Israel.
> He commanded our ancestors
> To make his deeds known to their descendants,
###### 6
> So that the next generation, children yet to be born,
> Might know about them.
> They will grow up and tell their descendants about them.
###### 7
> Then they will place their confidence in God.
> They will not forget the works of God,
> And they will obey his commands.
###### 8
> Then they will not be like their ancestors,
> Who were a stubborn and rebellious generation,
> A generation that was not committed
> And faithful to God.
###### ¶ 9
> The Ephraimites were armed with bows,
> But they retreated in the day of battle.
###### 10
> They did not keep their covenant with God,
> And they refused to obey his law.
###### 11
> They forgot what he had done,
> The amazing things he had shown them.
###### 12
> He did amazing things in the sight of their ancestors,
> In the land of Egypt, in the region of Zoan.
###### 13
> He divided the sea and led them across it;
> He made the water stand in a heap.
###### 14
> He led them with a cloud by day,
> And with the light of a fire all night long.
###### 15
> He broke open rocks in the wilderness,
> And gave them enough water to fill the depths of the sea.
###### 16
> He caused streams to flow from the rock,
> And made the water flow like rivers.
###### ¶ 17
> Yet they continued to sin against him,
> And rebelled against the Most High in the desert.
###### 18
> They willfully challenged God
> By asking for food to satisfy their appetite.
###### 19
> They insulted God, saying,
> “Is God really able to give us food in the wilderness?
###### 20
> “Yes, he struck a rock and water flowed out;
> “Streams gushed forth.
> “But can he also give us food?
> “Will he provide meat for his people?”
###### ¶ 21
> When the LORD heard this, he was furious.
> A fire broke out against Jacob,
> And his anger flared up against Israel,
###### 22
> Because they did not have faith in God,
> And did not trust his ability to deliver them.
###### 23
> He gave a command to the clouds above,
> And opened the doors in the sky.
###### 24
> He rained down manna for them to eat;
> He gave them the grain of heaven.
###### 25
> Man ate the food of the mighty ones.
> He sent them more than enough to eat.
###### 26
> He brought the east wind through the sky,
> And by his strength led forth the south wind.
###### 27
> He rained down meat on them like dust,
> Birds as numerous as the sand on the seashores.
###### 28
> He caused them to fall right in the middle of their camp,
> All around their homes.
###### 29
> They ate until they were beyond full;
> He gave them what they desired.
###### 30
> They were not yet filled up;
> Their food was still in their mouths,
###### 31
> When the anger of God flared up against them.
> He killed some of the strongest of them;
> He brought the young men of Israel to their knees.
###### 32
> Despite all this, they continued to sin,
> And did not trust him to do amazing things.
###### 33
> So he caused them to die unsatisfied
> And filled with terror.
###### ¶ 34
> When he struck them down, they sought his favor;
> They turned back and longed for God.
###### 35
> They remembered that God was their protector,
> And that God Most High was their deliverer.
###### 36
> But they deceived him with their words,
> And lied to him.
###### 37
> They were not really committed to him,
> And they were unfaithful to his covenant.
###### 38
> Yet he is compassionate.
> He forgives sin and does not destroy.
> He often holds back his anger,
> And does not stir up his fury.
###### 39
> He remembered that they were made of flesh,
> And were like a wind that blows past and does not return.
###### ¶ 40
> How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness,
> And insulted him in the wastelands.
###### 41
> They again challenged God,
> And offended the Holy One of Israel.
###### 42
> They did not remember what he had done,
> How he delivered them from the enemy,
###### 43
> When he performed his awesome deeds in Egypt,
> And his acts of judgment in the region of Zoan.
###### 44
> He turned their rivers into blood,
> And they could not drink from their streams.
###### 45
> He sent swarms of biting insects against them,
> As well as frogs that overran their land.
###### 46
> He gave their crops to the grasshopper,
> The fruit of their labor to the locust.
###### 47
> He destroyed their vines with hail,
> And their sycamore-fig trees with driving rain.
###### 48
> He rained hail down on their cattle,
> And hurled lightning bolts down on their livestock.
###### 49
> His raging anger lashed out against them.
> He sent fury, rage, and trouble
> As messengers who bring disaster.
###### 50
> He sent his anger in full force.
> He did not spare them from death;
> He handed their lives over to destruction.
###### 51
> He struck down all the firstborn in Egypt,
> The firstfruits of their reproductive power in the tents of Ham.
###### 52
> Yet he brought out his people like sheep;
> He led them through the wilderness like a flock.
###### 53
> He guided them safely along, and they were not afraid;
> But the sea covered their enemies.
###### ¶ 54
> He brought them to the border of his holy land,
> To this mountainous land that his right hand acquired.
###### 55
> He drove the nations out from before them;
> He assigned them their tribal allotments
> And allowed the tribes of Israel to settle down.
###### 56
> Yet they challenged and defied God Most High,
> And did not obey his commands.
###### 57
> They were unfaithful and acted as treacherously as their ancestors;
> They were as unreliable as a malfunctioning bow.
###### 58
> They made him angry with their pagan shrines,
> And made him jealous with their idols.
###### 59
> God heard and was angry;
> He completely rejected Israel.
###### 60
> He abandoned the sanctuary at Shiloh,
> The tent where he lived among men.
###### 61
> He allowed the symbol of his strong presence to be captured;
> He gave the symbol of his splendor into the hand of the enemy.
###### 62
> He delivered his people over to the sword,
> And was angry with his chosen nation.
###### 63
> Fire consumed their young men,
> And their virgins remained unmarried.
###### 64
> Their priests fell by the sword,
> But their widows did not weep.
###### ¶ 65
> But then the Lord awoke from his sleep;
> He was like a warrior in a drunken rage.
###### 66
> He drove his enemies back;
> He made them a permanent target for insults.
###### 67
> He rejected the tent of Joseph;
> He did not choose the tribe of Ephraim.
###### 68
> He chose the tribe of Judah
> And Mount Zion, which he loves.
###### 69
> He made his sanctuary as enduring as the heavens above,
> As secure as the earth, which he established permanently.
###### 70
> He chose David, his servant,
> And took him from the sheepfolds.
###### 71
> He took him away from following the mother sheep,
> And made him the shepherd of Jacob, his people,
> And of Israel, his chosen nation.
###### 72
> David cared for them with pure motives;
> He led them with skill.
