# Psalm 79
###### ¶ 1
> O God, foreigners have invaded your chosen land;
> They have polluted your holy temple
> And turned Jerusalem into a heap of ruins.
###### 2
> They have given the corpses of your servants
> To the birds of the sky,
> The flesh of your loyal followers
> To the beasts of the earth.
###### 3
> They have made their blood flow like water
> All around Jerusalem, and there is no one to bury them.
###### 4
> We have become an object of disdain to our neighbors;
> Those who live on our borders taunt and insult us.
###### 5
> How long will this go on, O LORD?
> Will you stay angry forever?
> How long will your rage burn like fire?
###### 6
> Pour out your anger on the nations that do not acknowledge you,
> On the kingdoms that do not pray to you.
###### 7
> For they have devoured Jacob
> And destroyed his home.
###### ¶ 8
> Do not hold us accountable for the sins of earlier generations.
> Quickly send your compassion our way,
> For we are in serious trouble.
###### 9
> Help us, O God, our deliverer!
> For the sake of your glorious reputation, rescue us.
> Forgive our sins for the sake of your reputation.
###### 10
> Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?”
> Before our very eyes may the shed blood of your servants
> Be avenged among the nations.
###### 11
> Listen to the painful cries of the prisoners.
> Use your great strength to set free those condemned to die.
###### 12
> Pay back our neighbors in full.
> May they be insulted the same way they insulted you, O Lord.
###### 13
> Then we, your people, the sheep of your pasture,
> Will continually thank you.
> We will tell coming generations of your praiseworthy acts.
