# Psalm 80
###### ¶ 1
> O Shepherd of Israel, pay attention,
> You who lead Joseph like a flock of sheep.
> You who sit enthroned above the cherubim, reveal your splendor.
###### 2
> In the sight of Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh reveal your power.
> Come and deliver us.
###### 3
> O God, restore us.
> Smile on us. Then we will be delivered.
###### ¶ 4
> O LORD God of Heaven’s Armies,
> How long will you remain angry at your people while they pray to you?
###### 5
> You have given them tears as food;
> You have made them drink tears by the measure.
###### 6
> You have made our neighbors dislike us,
> And our enemies insult us.
###### 7
> O God of Heaven’s Armies, restore us.
> Smile on us. Then we will be delivered.
###### ¶ 8
> You uprooted a vine from Egypt;
> You drove out nations and transplanted it.
###### 9
> You cleared the ground for it;
> It took root,
> And filled the land.
###### 10
> The mountains were covered by its shadow,
> The highest cedars by its branches.
###### 11
> Its branches reached the Mediterranean Sea,
> And its shoots the Euphrates River.
###### 12
> Why did you break down its walls,
> So that all who pass by pluck its fruit?
###### 13
> The wild boars of the forest ruin it;
> The insects of the field feed on it.
###### ¶ 14
> O God of Heaven’s Armies, come back.
> Look down from heaven and take notice.
> Take care of this vine,
###### 15
> The root your right hand planted,
> The shoot you made to grow.
###### 16
> It is burned and cut down.
> May those who did this die because you are displeased with them.
###### 17
> May you give support to the one you have chosen,
> To the one whom you raised up for yourself.
###### 18
> Then we will not turn away from you.
> Revive us and we will pray to you.
###### 19
> O LORD God of Heaven’s Armies, restore us.
> Smile on us. Then we will be delivered.
