# Psalm 81
###### ¶ 1
> Shout for joy to God, our source of strength!
> Shout out to the God of Jacob!
###### 2
> Sing a song and play the tambourine,
> The pleasant-sounding harp, and the ten-stringed instrument.
###### 3
> Sound the ram’s horn on the day of the new moon,
> And on the day of the full moon when our festival begins.
###### 4
> For observing the festival is a requirement for Israel;
> It is an ordinance given by the God of Jacob.
###### 5
> He decreed it as a regulation in Joseph,
> When he attacked the land of Egypt.
> I heard a voice I did not recognize.
###### ¶ 6
> It said: “I removed the burden from his shoulder;
>  “ His hands were released from holding the basket.
###### 7
>  “ In your distress you called out and I rescued you.
>  “ I answered you from a dark thundercloud.
>  “ I tested you at the waters of Meribah. (Selah)
###### 8
>  “ I said, ‘Listen, my people!
>  ‘ I will warn you.
>  ‘ O Israel, if only you would obey me!
###### 9
>  ‘ There must be no other god among you.
>  ‘ You must not worship a foreign god.
###### 10
>  ‘ I am the LORD, your God,
>  ‘ The one who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
>  ‘ Open your mouth wide and I will fill it.’
###### ¶ 11
>  “ But my people did not obey me;
>  “ Israel did not submit to me.
###### 12
>  “ I gave them over to their stubborn desires;
>  “ They did what seemed right to them.
###### 13
>  “ If only my people would obey me!
>  “ If only Israel would keep my commands!
###### 14
>  “ Then I would quickly subdue their enemies,
>  “ And attack their adversaries.”
###### 15
> May those who hate the LORD cower in fear before him.
> May they be permanently humiliated.
###### 16
>  “ I would feed Israel the best wheat,
>  “ And would satisfy your appetite with honey from the rocky cliffs.”
