# Psalm 89
###### ¶ 1
> I will sing continually about the LORD’s faithful deeds;
> To future generations I will proclaim your faithfulness.
###### 2
> For I say, “Loyal love is permanently established;
>  “ In the skies you set up your faithfulness.”
###### 3
> The LORD said,
>  “ I have made a covenant with my chosen one;
>  “ I have made a promise on oath to David, my servant:
###### 4
>  ‘ I will give you an eternal dynasty
>  ‘ And establish your throne throughout future generations.’” (Selah)
###### ¶ 5
> O LORD, the heavens praise your amazing deeds,
> As well as your faithfulness in the angelic assembly.
###### 6
> For who in the skies can compare to the LORD?
> Who is like the LORD among the heavenly beings,
###### 7
> A God who is honored in the great angelic assembly,
> And more awesome than all who surround him?
###### 8
> O LORD God of Heaven’s Armies!
> Who is strong like you, O LORD?
> Your faithfulness surrounds you.
###### 9
> You rule over the proud sea.
> When its waves surge, you calm them.
###### 10
> You crushed the Proud One and killed it;
> With your strong arm you scattered your enemies.
###### ¶ 11
> The heavens belong to you, as does the earth.
> You made the world and all it contains.
###### 12
> You created the north and the south.
> Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name.
###### 13
> Your arm is powerful,
> Your hand strong,
> Your right hand victorious.
###### 14
> Equity and justice are the foundation of your throne.
> Loyal love and faithfulness characterize your rule.
###### 15
> How blessed are the people who worship you!
> O LORD, they experience your favor.
###### 16
> They rejoice in your name all day long,
> And are vindicated by your justice.
###### 17
> For you give them splendor and strength.
> By your favor we are victorious.
###### 18
> For our shield belongs to the LORD,
> Our king to the Holy One of Israel.
###### ¶ 19
> Then you spoke through a vision to your faithful followers and said:
>  “ I have placed a young hero over a warrior;
>  “ I have raised up a young man from the people.
###### 20
>  “ I have discovered David, my servant.
>  “ With my holy oil I have anointed him as king.
###### 21
>  “ My hand will support him,
>  “ And my arm will strengthen him.
###### 22
>  “ No enemy will be able to exact tribute from him;
>  “ A violent oppressor will not be able to humiliate him.
###### 23
>  “ I will crush his enemies before him;
>  “ I will strike down those who hate him.
###### 24
>  “ He will experience my faithfulness and loyal love,
>  “ And by my name he will win victories.
###### 25
>  “ I will place his hand over the sea,
>  “ His right hand over the rivers.
###### 26
>  “ He will call out to me,
>  ‘ You are my father, my God, and the protector who delivers me.’
###### 27
>  “ I will appoint him to be my firstborn son,
>  “ The most exalted of the earth’s kings.
###### 28
>  “ I will always extend my loyal love to him,
>  “ And my covenant with him is secure.
###### 29
>  “ I will give him an eternal dynasty,
>  “ And make his throne as enduring as the skies above.
###### ¶ 30
>  “ If his sons reject my law
>  “ And disobey my regulations,
###### 31
>  “ If they break my rules
>  “ And do not keep my commandments,
###### 32
>  “ I will punish their rebellion by beating them with a club,
>  “ Their sin by inflicting them with bruises.
###### 33
>  “ But I will not remove my loyal love from him,
>  “ Nor be unfaithful to my promise.
###### 34
>  “ I will not break my covenant
>  “ Or go back on what I promised.
###### 35
>  “ Once and for all I have vowed by my own holiness,
>  “ I will never deceive David.
###### 36
>  “ His dynasty will last forever.
>  “ His throne will endure before me, like the sun;
###### 37
>  “ It will remain stable, like the moon.
>  “ His throne will endure like the skies.” (Selah)
###### ¶ 38
> But you have spurned and rejected him;
> You are angry with your chosen king.
###### 39
> You have repudiated your covenant with your servant;
> You have thrown his crown to the ground.
###### 40
> You have broken down all his walls;
> You have made his strongholds a heap of ruins.
###### 41
> All who pass by have robbed him;
> He has become an object of disdain to his neighbors.
###### 42
> You have allowed his adversaries to be victorious,
> And all his enemies to rejoice.
###### 43
> You turn back his sword from the adversary,
> And have not sustained him in battle.
###### 44
> You have brought to an end his splendor,
> And have knocked his throne to the ground.
###### 45
> You have cut short his youth,
> And have covered him with shame. (Selah)
###### ¶ 46
> How long, O LORD, will this last?
> Will you remain hidden forever?
> Will your anger continue to burn like fire?
###### 47
> Take note of my brief lifespan.
> Why do you make all people so mortal?
###### 48
> No man can live on without experiencing death,
> Or deliver his life from the power of Sheol. (Selah)
###### ¶ 49
> Where are your earlier faithful deeds, O Lord,
> The ones performed in accordance with your reliable oath to David?
###### 50
> Take note, O Lord, of the way your servants are taunted,
> And of how I must bear so many insults from people.
###### 51
> Your enemies, O LORD, hurl insults;
> They insult your chosen king as they dog his footsteps.
###### ¶ 52
> The LORD deserves praise forevermore!
> We agree! We agree!
