# Psalm 94
###### ¶ 1
> O LORD, the God who avenges!
> O God who avenges, reveal your splendor.
###### 2
> Rise up, O judge of the earth.
> Pay back the proud.
###### 3
> O LORD, how long will the wicked,
> How long will the wicked celebrate?
###### 4
> They spew out threats and speak defiantly;
> All the evildoers boast.
###### 5
> O LORD, they crush your people;
> They oppress the nation that belongs to you.
###### 6
> They kill the widow and the resident foreigner,
> And they murder the fatherless.
###### 7
> Then they say, “The LORD does not see this;
>  “ The God of Jacob does not take notice of it.”
###### ¶ 8
> Take notice of this, you ignorant people.
> You fools, when will you ever understand?
###### 9
> Does the one who makes the human ear not hear?
> Does the one who forms the human eye not see?
###### 10
> Does the one who disciplines the nations not punish?
> He is the one who imparts knowledge to human beings!
###### 11
> The LORD knows that peoples’ thoughts
> Are morally bankrupt.
###### ¶ 12
> How blessed is the one whom you instruct, O LORD,
> The one whom you teach from your law,
###### 13
> In order to protect him from times of trouble,
> Until the wicked are destroyed.
###### 14
> Certainly the LORD does not forsake his people;
> He does not abandon the nation that belongs to him.
###### 15
> For justice will prevail,
> And all the morally upright will be vindicated.
###### 16
> Who will rise up to defend me against the wicked?
> Who will stand up for me against the evildoers?
###### ¶ 17
> If the LORD had not helped me,
> I would soon have dwelt in the silence of death.
###### 18
> If I say, “My foot is slipping,”
> Your loyal love, O LORD, supports me.
###### 19
> When worries threaten to overwhelm me,
> Your soothing touch makes me happy.
###### 20
> Cruel rulers are not your allies,
> Those who make oppressive laws.
###### 21
> They conspire against the blameless,
> And condemn to death the innocent.
###### 22
> But the LORD will protect me,
> And my God will shelter me.
###### 23
> He will pay them back for their sin.
> He will destroy them because of their evil;
> The LORD our God will destroy them.
